Name: 4-Aminobenzoic Acid
Text:
P-aminobenzoic acid appears as colorless crystals that discolor on exposure to light and air. (NTP, 1992)
4-aminobenzoic acid is an aminobenzoic acid in which the amino group is para to the carboxy group. It has a role as an Escherichia coli metabolite, a plant metabolite and an allergen. It is functionally related to a benzoic acid. It is a conjugate base of a 4-carboxyanilinium. It is a conjugate acid of a 4-aminobenzoate. It is a tautomer of a 4-ammoniobenzoate.
A member of the vitamin B complex. It used to be common in sunscreening agents until found to also be a sensitizer. The potassium salt is used therapeutically in fibrotic skin disorders.
p-Aminobenzoic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Aminobenzoic acid is a Vitamin B Complex Member.
4-Aminobenzoic acid has been reported in Solanum tuberosum, Punica granatum, and other organisms with data available.
Aminobenzoic Acid is an organic acid with UV absorption and antifibrotic properties. When exposed to light, aminobenzoic acid (para-aminobenzoic acid or PABA) absorbs UV light and emits excess energy via a photochemical reaction that may cause damage to DNA. Because DNA defects contribute to skin cancer, aminobenzoic acid is no longer widely used in sunscreen formulations. Aminobenzoic acid may also increase oxygen uptake at the tissue level and may enhance monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity to promote the degradation of serotonin, which in excess, may lead to fibrotic changes.
AMINOBENZOIC ACID is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV.
4-Aminobenzoic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
An aminobenzoic acid isomer that combines with pteridine and GLUTAMIC ACID to form FOLIC ACID. The fact that 4-aminobenzoic acid absorbs light throughout the UVB range has also resulted in its use as an ingredient in SUNSCREENS.
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C1=CC(=CC=C1C(=O)O)N
formula: C7H7NO2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 137.14 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 137.047678466 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 137.047678466 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 63.3
Heavy Atom Count: 10
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 128
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

