Name: Acrylamide
Text:
Acrylamide is a colorless, odorless, crystalline solid that can react violently when melted. When it is heated, sharp fumes may be released.Acrylamide is used to make polyacrylamide, which is mainly used in treating waste water discharge from water treatment plants and industrial processes.In addition, acrylamide and polyacrylamides are used in the production of dyes and organic chemicals, contact lenses, cosmetics and toiletries, permanent-press fabrics, paper and textile production, pulp and paper production, ore processing, sugar refining, and as a chemical grouting agent and soil stabilizer for the construction of tunnels, sewers, wells and reservoirs.Acrylamide is formed in foods that are rich in carbohydrates when they are fried, grilled, or baked.
Acrylamide can cause cancer according to The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) and The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It can cause developmental toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to The National Toxicology Program's Center for the Evaluation of Risks to Human Reproduction.
Acrylamide appears as white crystalline solid shipped either as a solid or in solution. A confirmed carcinogen. Toxic by skin absorption. Less dense than water and soluble in water. May be toxic by ingestion. Used for sewage and waste treatment, to make dyes, adhesives. The solid is stable at room temperature, but upon melting may violently polymerize. Toxic, irritating to skin, eyes, etc.
Acrylamide solution, [aqueous] appears as a colorless aqueous solution of a solid. Often at a concentration of 40% (w/v). Spills can easily penetrate the soil and contaminate groundwater and nearby streams. Used for sewage and waste treatment and to make dyes and adhesives. Toxic, irritating to skin, eyes, etc. Produce toxic oxides of nitrogen when burned.
Acrylamide solution, [flammable liquid label] appears as a solution of a colorless crystalline solid. Flash point depends on the solvent but below 141 °F. Less dense than water. Vapors heavier than air. Toxic oxides of nitrogen produced during combustion. Used for sewage and waste treatment, to make dyes and adhesives.
Acrylamide is a member of the class of acrylamides that results from the formal condensation of acrylic acid with ammonia. It has a role as a carcinogenic agent, a neurotoxin, a mutagen, an alkylating agent and a Maillard reaction product. It is a N-acylammonia, a primary carboxamide and a member of acrylamides. It is functionally related to an acrylic acid.
The largest use for acrylamide is as an intermediate in the production of organic chemicals and in the synthesis of polyacrylamides. Acute (short-term) and chronic (long-term) oral exposures to acrylamide have resulted in damage to the nervous system in humans and animals. Human data are inadequate on acrylamide and cancer risk. In rats orally exposed to acrylamide, significantly increased incidences of tumors at multiple sites have been observed. EPA has classified acrylamide as a Group B2, probable human carcinogen.
Acrylamide is a colorless, odorless, crystalline amide that polymerizes rapidly and can form as a byproduct during the heating of starch-rich foods to high temperatures. Acrylamide is used in the production of polymers mainly in the water treatment industry, pulp and paper industry and textile treatment industry and is used as a laboratory reagent. The polymer is nontoxic, but exposure to the monomer can cause central and peripheral nervous system damage resulting in hallucinations, drowsiness and numbness in the hands and legs. Acrylamide is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen. (NCI05)
Acrylamide (ACR) is a chemical used in many industries around the world and more recently was found to form naturally in foods cooked at high temperatures. Acrylamide is a neurotoxicant, reproductive toxicant, and carcinogen in animal species. Only the neurotoxic effects have been observed in humans and only at high levels of exposure in occupational settings. The mechanism underlying neurotoxic effects of ACR may be basic to the other toxic effects seen in animals. This mechanism involves interference with the kinesin-related motor proteins in nerve cells or with fusion proteins in the formation of vesicles at the nerve terminus and eventual cell death. Neurotoxicity and resulting behavioral changes can affect reproductive performance of ACR-exposed laboratory animals with resulting decreased reproductive performance. Further, the kinesin motor proteins are important in sperm motility, which could alter reproduction parameters. Effects on kinesin proteins could also explain some of the genotoxic effects on ACR. These proteins form the spindle fibers in the nucleus that function in the separation of chromosomes during cell division. This could explain the clastogenic effects of the chemical noted in a number of tests for genotoxicity and assays for germ cell damage. Other mechanisms underlying ACR-induced carcinogenesis or nerve toxicity are likely related to an affinity for sulfhydryl groups on proteins. Binding of the sulfhydryl groups could inactive proteins/enzymes involved in DNA repair and other critical cell functions. Direct interaction with DNA may or may not be a major mechanism for cancer induction in animals. The DNA adducts that form do not correlate with tumor sites and ACR is mostly negative in gene mutation assays except at high doses that may not be achievable in the diet. All epidemiologic studies fail to show any increased risk of cancer from either high-level occupational exposure or the low levels found in the diet. In fact, two of the epidemiologic studies show a decrease in cancer of the large bowel. A number of risk assessment studies were performed to estimate increased cancer risk. The results of these studies are highly variable depending on the model. There is universal consensus among international food safety groups in all countries that examined the issue of ACR in the diet that not enough information is available at this time to make informed decisions on which to base any regulatory action. Too little is known about levels of this chemical in different foods and the potential risk from dietary exposure. Avoidance of foods containing ACR would result in worse health issues from an unbalanced diet or pathogens from under cooked foods. There is some consensus that low levels of ACR in the diet are not a concern for neurotoxicity or reproductive toxicity in humans, although further research is need to study the long-term, low-level cumulative effects on the nervous system. Any relationship to cancer risk from dietary exposure is hypothetical at this point and awaits more definitive studies. (A2877).
A colorless, odorless, highly water soluble vinyl monomer formed from the hydration of acrylonitrile. It is primarily used in research laboratories for electrophoresis, chromatography, and electron microscopy and in the sewage and wastewater treatment industries.
See also: Polyquaternium-53 (monomer of); Polyacrylamide (1500 MW) (monomer of); Polyacrylamide (1300000 MW) (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C=CC(=O)N
formula: C3H5NO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 71.08 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 71.037113783 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 71.037113783 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 43.1
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 57.9
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

