Name: Adenosine
Text:
Adenosine is a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta-N(9)-glycosidic bond. It has a role as an anti-arrhythmia drug, a vasodilator agent, an analgesic, a human metabolite and a fundamental metabolite. It is a purines D-ribonucleoside and a member of adenosines. It is functionally related to an adenine.
The structure of adenosine was first described in 1931, though the vasodilating effects were not described in literature until the 1940s. Adenosine is indicated as an adjunct to thallium-201 in myocardial perfusion scintigraphy, though it is rarely used in this indication, having largely been replaced by [dipyridamole] and [regadenson]. Adenosine is also indicated in the treatment of supraventricular tachycardia.  Adenosine was granted FDA approval on 30 October 1989.
Adenosine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Adenosine is an Adenosine Receptor Agonist. The mechanism of action of adenosine is as an Adenosine Receptor Agonist.
Adenosine has been reported in Acanthus ilicifolius, Acanthus ebracteatus, and other organisms with data available.
Adenosine is a ribonucleoside comprised of adenine bound to ribose, with vasodilatory, antiarrhythmic and analgesic activities. Phosphorylated forms of adenosine play roles in cellular energy transfer, signal transduction and the synthesis of RNA.
ADENOSINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1989 and has 3 approved and 18 investigational indications.
Adenosine is a nucleoside that is composed of adenine and d-ribose. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. For instance, adenosine plays an important role in energy transfer - as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP). It also plays a role in signal transduction as cyclic adenosine monophosphate, cAMP. Adenosine itself is both a neurotransmitter and potent vasodilator. When administered intravenously, adenosine causes transient heart block in the AV node. Because of the effects of adenosine on AV node-dependent supraventricular tachycardia, adenosine is considered a class V antiarrhythmic agent.
Adenosine is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A nucleoside that is composed of adenine and d-ribose. Adenosine or adenosine derivatives play many important biological roles in addition to being components of DNA and RNA. Adenosine itself is a neurotransmitter.
See also: Adenosine; Glycerin (component of); Adenosine; levomenol (component of); Adenosine; Niacinamide (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C1=NC(=C2C(=N1)N(C=N2)[C@H]3[C@@H]([C@@H]([C@H](O3)CO)O)O)N
formula: C10H13N5O4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 267.24 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 4
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 8
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 267.09675391 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 267.09675391 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 140
Heavy Atom Count: 19
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 335
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 4
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

