Name: Aluminum
Text:
Aluminum is the most abundant metal in the earth's crust. It is always found combined with other elements such as oxygen, silicon, and fluorine. Aluminum as the metal is obtained from aluminum-containing minerals. Small amounts of aluminum can be found dissolved in water. Aluminum metal is light in weight and silvery-white in appearance. Aluminum is used for beverage cans, pots and pans, airplanes, siding and roofing, and foil. Aluminum is often mixed with small amounts of other metals to form aluminum alloys, which are stronger and harder. Aluminum compounds have many different uses, for example, as alums in water-treatment and alumina in abrasives and furnace linings. They are also found in consumer products such as antacids, astringents, buffered aspirin, food additives, and antiperspirants.
Aluminium(0) is an elemental aluminium.
A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
Aluminum is a metallic element in the boron group with atomic symbol Al, atomic number 13, and atomic weight 27.
Aluminium is a mineral with formula of Al. The corresponding IMA (International Mineralogical Association) number is IMA1980-085a. The IMA symbol is Al.
aluminum is a mineral.
Aluminium is a soft, lightweight metal with appearance ranging from silvery to dull gray, depending on the surface roughness. Data indicate that aluminum contaminates much of the raw material used to manufacture solutions used for intravenous nutritional support of hospitalized and ambulatory patients, and that pharmaceutical manufacturers have only recently obtained the technology necessary to detect aluminum contamination of their products. As a result, aluminum bypassed normal barriers and entered the blood, accumulating in tissues such as bone, liver and the central nervous system with toxic consequences. Now that the FDA has finally issued a rule governing aluminum contamination in these solutions, manufacturers will need to develop methods to minimize such contamination; scientists should also realize that when data they obtain indicate a serious problem in the manufacturing sector they should be sure that the problem is properly addressed. Physiologically, this metal/element. exists as an ion in the body. (A7725).
A metallic element that has the atomic number 13, atomic symbol Al, and atomic weight 26.98.
See also: Aluminum hydride (annotation moved to); ALUMINIUM POWDER (pyrophoric) (annotation moved to); Aluminium powder (stabilised) (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [Al]
formula: Al
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 26.981538 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 26.9815384 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 26.9815384 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

