Name: Amlodipine Besylate
Text:
Amlodipine benzenesulfonate is the benzenesulfonate salt of amlodipine. It has a role as a vasodilator agent, a calcium channel blocker and an antihypertensive agent. It contains an amlodipine.
Amlodipine Besylate is the besylate salt of amlodipine, a synthetic dihydropyridine with antihypertensive and antianginal effects. Amlodipine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium ions into myocardial and peripheral vascular smooth muscle cells, thereby preventing vascular and myocardial contraction. This results in a dilatation of the main coronary and systemic arteries, decreased myocardial contractility, increased blood flow and oxygen delivery to the myocardial tissue, and decreased total peripheral resistance. This agent may also modulate multi-drug resistance (MDR) activity through inhibition of the p-glycoprotein efflux pump.
AMLODIPINE BESYLATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1992 and has 13 approved and 3 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
A long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker. It is effective in the treatment of ANGINA PECTORIS and HYPERTENSION.
See also: Amlodipine (has active moiety); Amlodipine besylate; benazepril hydrochloride (component of); Amlodipine besylate; telmisartan (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CCOC(=O)C1=C(NC(=C(C1C2=CC=CC=C2Cl)C(=O)OC)C)COCCN.C1=CC=C(C=C1)S(=O)(=O)O
formula: C26H31ClN2O8S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 567.1 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 10
Rotatable Bond Count: 11
Exact Mass: 566.1489648 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 566.1489648 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 163
Heavy Atom Count: 38
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 830
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

