Name: Ammonia
Text:
Ammonia occurs naturally and is produced by human activity. It is an important source of nitrogen which is needed by plants and animals. Bacteria found in the intestines can produce ammonia. Ammonia is a colorless gas with a very distinct odor. This odor is familiar to many people because ammonia is used in smelling salts, many household and industrial cleaners, and window-cleaning products. Ammonia gas can be dissolved in water. This kind of ammonia is called liquid ammonia or aqueous ammonia. Once exposed to open air, liquid ammonia quickly turns into a gas. Ammonia is applied directly into soil on farm fields, and is used to make fertilizers for farm crops, lawns, and plants. Many household and industrial cleaners contain ammonia.
Ammonia solutions (containing more than 35% but not more than 50% ammonia) appears as a clear colorless liquid consisting of ammonia dissolved in water. Corrosive to tissue and metals. Although ammonia is lighter than air, the vapors from a leak will initially hug the ground. Long term exposure to low concentrations or short term exposure to high concentrations may result in adverse health conditions from inhalation. Prolonged exposure of containers to fire or heat may result in their violent rupturing and rocketing.
Ammonia, anhydrous appears as a clear colorless gas with a strong odor. Shipped as a liquid under its own vapor pressure. Density (liquid) 6 lb / gal. Contact with the unconfined liquid can cause frostbite. Gas generally regarded as nonflammable but does burn within certain vapor concentration limits and with strong ignition. Fire hazard increases in the presence of oil or other combustible materials. Although gas is lighter than air, vapors from a leak initially hug the ground. Prolonged exposure of containers to fire or heat may cause violent rupturing and rocketing. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations of the vapors or short-term inhalation of high concentrations has adverse health effects. Used as a fertilizer, as a refrigerant, and in the manufacture of other chemicals.   Rate of onset: Immediate  Persistence: Minutes  Odor threshold: 17 ppm  Source/use/other hazard: Explosives manufacture; pesticides; detergents industry.
Ammonia, solution, with more than 10% but not more than 35% ammonia appears as a colorless aqueous liquid solution with a strong odor of ammonia. Both liquid and vapors extremely irritating, especially to the eyes.
Ammonia is an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms. It has a role as a nucleophilic reagent, a neurotoxin, a metabolite, an EC 3.5.1.4 (amidase) inhibitor, a refrigerant, a mouse metabolite and a NMR chemical shift reference compound. It is an azane, a mononuclear parent hydride and a gas molecular entity. It is a conjugate base of an ammonium. It is a conjugate acid of an azanide.
Ammonia is a naturally-occurring compound with a chemical formula NH3 and structure of trigonal pyramidal geometry. It is a colorless gas with a pungent smell, and become NH4, or ammonium ion, when in water. Although ammonia is used as a food additive in the anhydrous form and serves as a starting material in pharmaceutical and commercial products, it is caustic and hazardous when concentrated. Ammonia gas has been used in the clinical setting as a respiratory stimulant to prevent fainting. The radiolabelled form of ammonia, ammonia N 13, is intravenously administered as a radioactive diagnostic agent for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the myocardium to evaluate myocardial perfusion. Ammonia is a natural byproduct of biological and chemical reactions, including decomposition of organic matter, including plants, animals, and animal wastes. It is present in normally present in all tissues constituting a metabolic pool, where it is mostly taken up by glutamic acid and take part in transamination and other reactions, including the synthesis of protein by the Krebs-Hanseleit cycle in the liver. It is proposed that human adults produce about 1000 mmol of ammonia daily, most of which undergoes excretion in the urine.
Ammonia is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Ammonia has been reported in Psophocarpus tetragonolobus, Arabidopsis thaliana, and other organisms with data available.
Ammonia is an inorganic compound composed of a single nitrogen atom covalently bonded to three hydrogen atoms that is an amidase inhibitor and neurotoxin. It is both manufactured and produced naturally from bacterial processes and the breakdown of organic matter. Ammonia is used in many industrial processes, and as a fertilizer and refrigerant. It is characterized as a colorless gas or compressed liquid with a pungent odor and exposure occurs by inhalation, ingestion, or contact.
AMMONIA SOLUTION, STRONG is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2007 and is indicated for coronary artery disease and has 1 investigational indication.
Ammonia is a colorless alkaline gas with a characteristic sharp smell. Ammonia is one of the most abundant nitrogen-containing compounds in the atmosphere. It is an irritant with a characteristic pungent odor, which is widely used in industry. Inasmuch as ammonia is highly soluble in water and, upon inhalation, is deposited in the upper airways, occupational exposures to ammonia have commonly been associated with sinusitis, upper airway irritation, and eye irritation. Acute exposures to high levels of ammonia have also been associated with diseases of the lower airways and interstitial lung. Ammonia has been shown to be a neurotoxin that predominantly affects astrocytes. Disturbed mitochondrial function and oxidative stress, factors implicated in the induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition, appear to be involved in the mechanism of ammonia neurotoxicity. Ammonia is formed in nearly all tissues and organs of the vertebrate organism; it is the most common endogenous neurotoxic compounds. Ammonia can affect the glutamatergic and GABAergic neuronal systems, the two prevailing neuronal systems of the cortical structures. Ammonia is well recognized to be central in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy and has been of importance to generations dating back to the early Egyptians. The gut produces ammonia which is metabolized in the liver and almost all organ systems are involved in ammonia metabolism. Colonic bacteria produce ammonia by splitting urea and other amino acids, however this does not explain hyperammonemia and hepatic encephalopathy. The alternative explanation is that hyperammonemia is the result of intestinal breakdown of amino acids, especially glutamine. The intestines have significant glutaminase activity, predominantly located in the enterocytes. On the other hand, this organ has only a little glutamine synthetase activity, making it a major glutamine-consuming organ. In addition to the intestine, the kidney is an important source of blood ammonia in patients with liver disease. Ammonia is also taken up by the muscle and brain in hepatic coma, and there is confirmation that ammonia is metabolized in muscle. The excessive formation of ammonia in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients has been demonstrated, and it has been shown that some Alzheimer's disease patients exhibit elevated blood ammonia concentrations. Ammonia is the most important natural modulator of lysosomal protein processing: there is evidence for the involvement of aberrant lysosomal processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) in the formation of amyloid deposits. Inflammatory processes and activation of microglia are widely believed to be implicated in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Ammonia is able to affect the characteristic functions of microglia, such as endocytosis, and cytokine production. Based on these facts, an ammonia-based hypothesis for Alzheimer's disease has been suggested. (A7717, A7718, A7719, A7720, A7721).
Ammonia is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A colorless alkaline gas. It is formed in the body during decomposition of organic materials during a large number of metabolically important reactions. Note that the aqueous form of ammonia is referred to as AMMONIUM HYDROXIDE.
See also: Ammonium Hydroxide (has subclass); Tobacco Leaf (part of); Ammonia solution (has subclass) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Environmental Hazard
smiles: N
formula: H3N
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 17.031 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 17.026549100 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 17.026549100 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 1
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

