Name: Ammonium nitrate
Text:
Ammonium nitrate is commercially available both as a colorless crystalline solid and processed into prills for specific applications. Soluble in water. Does not readily burn but will do so if contaminated with combustible material. Accelerates the burning of combustible material. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion. Used to make fertilizers and explosives, and as a nutrient in producing antibiotics and yeast.
Ammonium nitrate based fertilizer appears as a grayish white solid in the form of prills. Soluble in water. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion.
Ammonium Nitrate Emulsion, Suspension, or Gel is ammonium nitrate suspended in a liquid. The material itself does not readily burn but will readily do so if contaminated by combustible material. It will accelerate the burning of combustible material. Toxic oxides of nitrogen are produced during combustion during combustion of this material. It is used as a fertilizer, as a freezing mixture, in safety explosives, matches, and pyrotechnics.
Ammonium nitrate is the ammonium salt of nitric acid. It has a role as a fertilizer, an explosive and an oxidising agent. It is an inorganic molecular entity, an ammonium salt and an inorganic nitrate salt.
Ammonium nitrate is a nitrate of ammonium. It is commonly used in agriculture as a high-nitrogen fertilizer, and it has also been used as an oxidizing agent in explosives. Nitrite is a toxic compound known to cause methemoglobinemia. (L1137, L1619)
See also: Nitric acid, ammonium salt (2:1) (annotation moved to); Nitrate OF ammonia explosives (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Irritant
smiles: [NH4+].[N+](=O)([O-])[O-]
formula: H3N.HNO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 80.044 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 80.02219199 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 80.02219199 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 63.9
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 18.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

