Name: Antimony
Text:
Antimony is a silvery-white metal that is found in the earth's crust. Antimony ores are mined and then mixed with other metals to form antimony alloys or combined with oxygen to form antimony oxide. Little antimony is currently mined in the United States. It is brought into this country from other countries for processing. However, there are companies in the United States that produce antimony as a by-product of smelting lead and other metals. Antimony isn't used alone because it breaks easily, but when mixed into alloys, it is used in lead storage batteries, solder, sheet and pipe metal, bearings, castings, and pewter. Antimony oxide is added to textiles and plastics to prevent them from catching fire. It is also used in paints, ceramics, and fireworks, and as enamels for plastics, metal, and glass.
Antimony powder appears as a silvery or gray solid in the form of dust. Denser than water and insoluble in water. Toxic by inhalation and by ingestion. May burn and emit toxic fumes if heated or exposed to flames. Used to make electric storage batteries and semiconductors.
Antimony(0) is an elemental antimony.
Antimony has been used in trials studying the treatment of Cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
Everyone is exposed to low levels of antimony in the environment. Acute (short-term) exposure to antimony by inhalation in humans results in effects on the skin and eyes. Respiratory effects, such as inflammation of the lungs, chronic bronchitis, and chronic emphysema, are the primary effects noted from chronic (long-term) exposure to antimony in humans via inhalation. Human studies are inconclusive regarding antimony exposure and cancer, while animal studies have reported lung tumors in rats exposed to antimony trioxide via inhalation. EPA has not classified antimony for carcinogenicity.
Antimony is an element with atomic symbol Sb, atomic number 51, and atomic weight 121.76.
Antimony is a mineral with formula of Sb. The IMA symbol is Sb.
A metallic element that has the atomic symbol Sb, atomic number 51, and atomic weight 121.75. It is used as a metal alloy and as medicinal and poisonous salts. It is toxic and an irritant to the skin and the mucous membranes.
See also: Antimony; gold (component of); Antimony; gold; ST. john'S wort (component of); Antimony; phosphorus; viscum album fruiting top (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [Sb]
formula: Sb
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 121.760 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 120.90381 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 120.90381 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

