Name: Atorvastatin
Text:
Atorvastatin is a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is a member of the drug class known as statins, used primarily for lowering blood cholesterol and for preventing cardiovascular diseases. It has a role as an environmental contaminant and a xenobiotic. It is an aromatic amide, a member of monofluorobenzenes, a statin (synthetic), a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid and a member of pyrroles. It is functionally related to a heptanoic acid. It is a conjugate acid of an atorvastatin(1-).
Atorvastatin (Lipitor®), is a lipid-lowering drug included in the statin class of medications. By inhibiting the endogenous production of cholesterol in the liver, statins lower abnormal cholesterol and lipid levels, and ultimately reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. More specifically, statin medications competitively inhibit the enzyme hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) Reductase, which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonic acid. This conversion is a critical metabolic reaction involved in the production of several compounds involved in lipid metabolism and transport, including cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (sometimes referred to as "bad cholesterol"), and very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). Prescribing statins is considered standard practice for patients following any cardiovascular event, and for people who are at moderate to high risk of developing cardiovascular disease. The evidence supporting statin use, coupled with minimal side effects and long term benefits, has resulted in wide use of this medication in North America.  Atorvastatin and other statins including [lovastatin], [pravastatin], [rosuvastatin], [fluvastatin], and [simvastatin] are considered first-line treatment options for dyslipidemia. The increasing use of this class of drugs is largely attributed to the rise in cardiovascular diseases (CVD) (such as heart attack, atherosclerosis, angina, peripheral artery disease, and stroke) in many countries. An elevated cholesterol level (elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels in particular) is a significant risk factor for the development of CVD. Several landmark studies demonstrate that the use of statins is associated with both a reduction in LDL levels and CVD risk. Statins were shown to reduce the incidences of all-cause mortality, including fatal and non-fatal CVD, as well as the need for surgical revascularization or angioplasty following a heart attack. Some evidence has shown that even for low-risk individuals (with <10% risk of a major vascular event occurring within five years) statin use leads to a 20%-22% relative reduction in the number of major cardiovascular events (heart attack, stroke, coronary revascularization, and coronary death) for every 1 mmol/L reduction in LDL without any significant side effects or risks.  Atorvastatin was first synthesized in 1985 by Dr. Bruce Roth and approved by the FDA in 1996. It is a pentasubstituted pyrrole formed by two contrasting moieties with an achiral heterocyclic core unit and a 3,5-dihydroxypentanoyl side chain identical to its parent compound. Unlike other members of the statin group, atorvastatin is an active compound and therefore does not require activation.
Atorvastatin is a HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of atorvastatin is as a Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitor.
Atorvastatin is a commonly used cholesterol lowering agent (statin) that is associated with mild, asymptomatic and self-limited serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy and rarely with clinically apparent acute liver injury.
Atorvastatin is a synthetic lipid-lowering agent. Atorvastatin competitively inhibits hepatic hydroxymethyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a key step in cholesterol synthesis. Atorvastatin also increases the number of LDL receptors on hepatic cell surfaces to enhance uptake and catabolism of LDL and reduces LDL production and the number of LDL particles. This agent lowers plasma cholesterol and lipoprotein levels and modulates immune responses by suppressing MHC II (major histocompatibility complex II) on interferon gamma-stimulated, antigen-presenting cells such as human vascular endothelial cells. (NCI04)
Atorvastatin Calcium is the calcium salt of atorvastatin, a synthetic lipid-lowering agent. Atorvastatin competitively inhibits hepatic hydroxymethyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, a key step in cholesterol synthesis. This agent increases the number of LDL receptors on hepatic cell surfaces, enhancing the uptake and catabolism of LDL and reducing LDL production and the number of LDL particles, and lowers plasma cholesterol and lipoprotein levels. Like other statins, atorvastatin may also display direct antineoplastic activity, possibly by inhibiting farnesylation and geranylgeranylation of proteins such as small GTP-binding proteins, which may result in the arrest of cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. This agent may also sensitize tumor cells to cyctostatic drugs, possibly through the mTOR-dependent inhibition of Akt phosphorylation.
ATORVASTATIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1996 and has 14 approved and 106 investigational indications.
Atorvastatin (Lipitor) is a member of the drug class known as statins. It is used for lowering cholesterol. Atorvastatin is a competitive inhibitor of hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, the rate-determining enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis via the mevalonate pathway. HMG-CoA reductase catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate. Atorvastatin acts primarily in the liver. Decreased hepatic cholesterol levels increases hepatic uptake of cholesterol and reduces plasma cholesterol levels. 
A pyrrole and heptanoic acid derivative, HYDROXYMETHYLGLUTARYL-COA REDUCTASE INHIBITOR (statin), and ANTICHOLESTEREMIC AGENT that is used to reduce serum levels of LDL-CHOLESTEROL; APOLIPOPROTEIN B; and TRIGLYCERIDES. It is used to increase serum levels of HDL-CHOLESTEROL in the treatment of HYPERLIPIDEMIAS, and for the prevention of CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES in patients with multiple risk factors.
See also: Atorvastatin Calcium Trihydrate (active moiety of); Atorvastatin Sodium (has salt form); Atorvastatin calcium propylene glycol solvate (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC(C)C1=C(C(=C(N1CC[C@H](C[C@H](CC(=O)O)O)O)C2=CC=C(C=C2)F)C3=CC=CC=C3)C(=O)NC4=CC=CC=C4
formula: C33H35FN2O5
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 558.6 g/mol
XLogP3: 5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 4
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 6
Rotatable Bond Count: 12
Exact Mass: 558.25300038 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 558.25300038 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 112
Heavy Atom Count: 41
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 822
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 2
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

