Name: Azacitidine
Text:
Azacitidine can cause cancer according to The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).
5-azacytidine is a white crystalline powder. (NTP, 1992)
5-azacytidine is an N-glycosyl-1,3,5-triazine that is 4-amino-1,3,5-triazin-2(1H)-one substituted by a beta-D-ribofuranosyl residue via an N-glycosidic linkage. An antineoplastic agent, it is used in the treatment of myeloid leukaemia. It has a role as an antineoplastic agent. It is a N-glycosyl-1,3,5-triazine and a nucleoside analogue. It is functionally related to a beta-D-ribose.
Azacitidine is a pyrimidine nucleoside analogue with anti-neoplastic activity. It differs from cytosine by the presence of nitrogen in the C5-position, key in its hypomethylating activity. Two main mechanisms of action have been proposed for azacitidine. One of them is the induction of cytotoxicity. As an analogue of cytidine, it is able to incorporate into RNA and DNA, disrupting RNA metabolism and inhibiting protein and DNA synthesis. The other one is through the inhibition of DNA methyltransferase, impairing DNA methylation. Due to its anti-neoplastic activity and its ability to inhibit methylation in replicating DNA, azacytidine has been used mainly used in the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML), two types of cancer characterized by the presence of aberrant DNA methylation.  In May 2004, the FDA approved the use of azacitidine administered subcutaneously for the treatment of MDS of all French-American-British (FAB) subtypes. In January 2007, the FDA approved the intravenous administration of azacitidine. The use of oral azacitidine for the treatment of AML in patients in complete remission was approved by the FDA in September 2020.
Azacitidine is a Nucleoside Metabolic Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of azacitidine is as a Nucleic Acid Synthesis Inhibitor.
Azacitidine is a cytosine analogue and antineoplastic agent used in the therapy of myelodysplastic syndromes. Azacitidine is associated with a low rate of transient serum enzyme elevations during therapy and has not been convincingly implicated in cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury with jaundice.
Azacitidine has been reported in Streptomyces sparsogenes with data available.
Azacitidine is a pyrimidine nucleoside analogue of cytidine with antineoplastic activity. Azacitidine is incorporated into DNA, where it reversibly inhibits DNA methyltransferase, thereby blocking DNA methylation.  Hypomethylation of DNA by azacitidine may activate tumor suppressor genes silenced by hypermethylation, resulting in an antitumor effect. This agent is also incorporated into RNA, thereby disrupting normal RNA function and impairing tRNA cytosine-5-methyltransferase activity. (NCI04)
AZACITIDINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2004 and has 8 approved and 56 investigational indications.
Azacitidine is only found in individuals that have used or taken this drug. It is a pyrimidine nucleoside analogue that inhibits DNA methyltransferase, impairing DNA methylation. It is also an antimetabolite of cytidine, incorporated primarily into RNA. Azacytidine has been used as an antineoplastic agent. Azacitidine (5-azacytidine) is a chemical analogue of the cytosine nucleoside used in DNA and RNA. Azacitidine is thought to induce antineoplastic activity via two mechanisms; inhibition of DNA methyltransferase at low doses, causing hypomethylation of DNA, and direct cytotoxicity in abnormal hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow through its incorporation into DNA and RNA at high doses, resulting in cell death. As azacitidine is a ribonucleoside, it incoporates into RNA to a larger extent than into DNA. The incorporation into RNA leads to the dissembly of polyribosomes, defective methylation and acceptor function of transfer RNA, and inhibition of the production of protein. Its incorporation into DNA leads to a covalent binding with DNA methyltransferases, which prevents DNA synthesis and subsequent cytotoxicity.
A pyrimidine analogue that inhibits DNA methyltransferase, impairing DNA methylation. It is also an antimetabolite of cytidine, incorporated primarily into RNA. Azacytidine has been used as an antineoplastic agent.
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C1=NC(=NC(=O)N1[C@H]2[C@@H]([C@@H]([C@H](O2)CO)O)O)N
formula: C8H12N4O5
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 244.20 g/mol
XLogP3: -2.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 4
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 5
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 244.08076950 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 244.08076950 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 141
Heavy Atom Count: 17
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 384
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 4
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

