Name: Benzocaine
Text:
Benzocaine is a benzoate ester having 4-aminobenzoic acid as the acid component and ethanol as the alcohol component. A surface anaesthetic, it is used to suppress the gag reflex, and as a lubricant and topical anaesthetic on the larynx, mouth, nasal cavity, respiratory tract, oesophagus, rectum, urinary tract, and vagina. It has a role as a topical anaesthetic, an antipruritic drug, an allergen and a sensitiser. It is a benzoate ester and a substituted aniline.
Benzocaine is an ester local anesthetic that acts by preventing transmission of impulses along nerve fibers and at nerve endings. It is commonly used for local anesthesia in many over the counter products. Benzocaine was first used for local anesthesia in dentistry.
Benzocaine is a Standardized Chemical Allergen. The physiologic effect of benzocaine is by means of Increased Histamine Release, and Cell-mediated Immunity.
Benzocaine is an ester of paraaminobenzoic acid, lacking the terminal diethylamino group of procaine, with anesthetic activity. Benzocaine binds to the sodium channel and reversibly stabilizes the neuronal membrane which decreases its permeability to sodium ions. Depolarization of the neuronal membrane is inhibited, thereby blocking the initiation and conduction of nerve impulses.
BENZOCAINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 9 approved and 5 investigational indications.
Benzocaine is a surface anesthetic that acts by preventing transmission of impulses along nerve fibers and at nerve endings. Benzocaine is a local anesthetic commonly used as a topical pain reliever. It is the active ingredient in many over-the-counter analgesic ointments. Benzocaine is an ester, a compound made from the organic acid PABA (para-aminobenzoic acid) and ethanol. The process in which this ester is created is known as Fischer esterification.
A surface anesthetic that acts by preventing transmission of impulses along nerve fibers and at nerve endings.
See also: Benzocaine Hydrochloride (has salt form); Alcohol; Benzocaine (component of); Benzocaine; white petrolatum (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CCOC(=O)C1=CC=C(C=C1)N
formula: C9H11NO2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 165.19 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 165.078978594 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 165.078978594 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 52.3
Heavy Atom Count: 12
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 151
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

