Name: Benzoyl Peroxide
Text:
Benzoyl peroxide appears as odorless white powder or granules. Sinks in water. (USCG, 1999)
Benzoyl peroxide is a carbonyl compound.
Benzoyl peroxide is a commonly used drug in topical treatments for acne. It has been formulated as products with either a single active ingredient, or with [erythromycin], [clindamycin], or [adapalene]. After administration, the peroxide bond is cleaved, allowing benzoyloxy radicals to nonspecifically interact with proteins. This treatment decreases keratin and sebum around follicles, as well as increasing turnover of epithelial cells.  Benzoyl peroxide, in combination with erythromycin, was granted FDA approval on 26 October 1984.
Benzoyl Peroxide has been reported in Onychium lucidum and Arabidopsis thaliana with data available.
Benzoyl Peroxide is a peroxide with antibacterial, irritant, keratolytic, comedolytic, and anti-inflammatory activity. Upon topical application, benzoyl peroxide decomposes to release oxygen which is lethal to the bacteria Proprionibacterium acnes. Due to its irritant effect, benzoyl peroxide increases turnover rate of epithelial cells, thereby peeling the skin and promoting the resolution of comedones. Benzoyl peroxide is used in the treatment of acne vulgaris.
BENZOYL PEROXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1984 and is indicated for acne and has 4 investigational indications.
A peroxide derivative that has been used topically for BURNS and as a dermatologic agent in the treatment of ACNE and POISON IVY DERMATITIS. It is used also as a bleach in the food industry.
See also: Benzoic Acid (has active moiety); Benzoyl Peroxide; Clindamycin Phosphate (component of); Adapalene; benzoyl peroxide (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Explosive and Flammable and Irritant and Environmental Hazard
smiles: C1=CC=C(C=C1)C(=O)OOC(=O)C2=CC=CC=C2
formula: C14H10O4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 242.23 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 242.05790880 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 242.05790880 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 52.6
Heavy Atom Count: 18
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 258
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

