Name: Beryllium
Text:
Beryllium is a hard, grayish metal naturally found in mineral rocks, coal, soil, and volcanic dust. Beryllium compounds are commercially mined, and the Beryllium is purified for use in nuclear weapons and reactors, aircraft and space vehicle structures, instruments, x-ray machines, and mirrors. Beryllium ores are used to make speciality ceramics for electrical and high-technology applications. Beryllium alloys are used in automobiles, computers, sports equipment (golf clubs and bicycle frames), and dental bridges.
Beryllium and beryllium compounds can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Beryllium compounds, n.o.s. are generally white, crystalline or powdered material containing beryllium. They are generally soluble in water. They are toxic by inhalation and by ingestion.
Beryllium powder appears as a grayish-white hard light metal. Denser than water, but the powder may float. May be toxic by inhalation. Will burn if involved in a fire.
Beryllium atom is alkaline earth metal atom with atomic number 4. It has a role as a carcinogenic agent, an adjuvant and an epitope. It is an alkaline earth metal atom and a metal allergen.
Beryllium is aN element with atomic symbol Be, atomic number 4, and atomic weight 9.01
beryllium is a mineral.
An element with the atomic symbol Be, atomic number 4, and atomic weight 9.01218. Short exposure to this element can lead to a type of poisoning known as BERYLLIOSIS.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: [Be]
formula: Be
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 9.012183 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 9.0121831 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 9.0121831 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

