Name: Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
Text:
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthlate (DEHP) is a manufactured chemical that is commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. DEHP is a colorless liquid with almost no odor. DEHP is present in plastic products such as wall coverings, tablecloths, floor tiles, furniture upholstery, shower curtains, garden hoses, swimming pool liners, rainwear, baby pants, dolls, some toys, shoes, automobile upholstery and tops, packaging film and sheets, sheathing for wire and cable, medical tubing, and blood storage bags.
Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts. It can cause developmental toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to NIOSH and the FDA.
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate is a colorless to pale yellow oily liquid. Nearly odorless. (USCG, 1999)
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate is a phthalate ester that is the bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester of benzene-1,2-dicarboxylic acid. It has a role as an apoptosis inhibitor, an androstane receptor agonist and a plasticiser. It is a phthalate ester and a diester.
Bis
Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate has been reported in Penicillium olsonii, Streptomyces, and other organisms with data available.
Diethylhexylphthalate is a colorless, oily organic carcinogen with a slight odor. Bis(2-Ethylhexyl) Phthalate is mainly used as a plasticizer for fabricating flexible materials for many household products. Inhalation, digestion, and dermal contact are the primary routes of potential exposure, which was linked to increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas in animals. This substance is reasonably anticipated to be a human carcinogen. (NCI05)
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthlate (DEHP) is a manufactured chemical that is commonly added to plastics to make them flexible. DEHP exposure is generally low and not harmful, but increased exposures resulting from intravenous fluids delivered through plastic tubing or ingesting contaminated foods or water may have toxic effects. This is of particular concern since DEHP is known to leach into liquid that come in contact with DEHP containing plastic. (L181, L182)
An ester of phthalic acid. It appears as a light-colored, odorless liquid and is used as a plasticizer for many resins and elastomers.
See also: Di (2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) (annotation moved to); Di-sec octyl phthalate (annotation moved to); Phthalate DI-2-ethylhexyl (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: CCCCC(CC)COC(=O)C1=CC=CC=C1C(=O)OCC(CC)CCCC
formula: C24H38O4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 390.6 g/mol
XLogP3: 7.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 16
Exact Mass: 390.27700969 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 390.27700969 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 52.6
Heavy Atom Count: 28
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 394
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 2
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

