Name: Boric Acid
Text:
Boric acid is an odorless white solid. Melting point 171 °C. Sinks and mixes with water. (USCG, 1999)
Boric acid is a member of boric acids. It has a role as an astringent. It is a conjugate acid of a dihydrogenborate.
Boric acid, also known as hydrogen borate, is a weak monobasic Lewis acid of boron with the chemical formula H3BO3. Boric acid is typically utilized in industrial processing and manufacturing, but is also used as an additive in pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, lotions, soaps, mouthwash, toothpaste, astringents, and eyewashes. It is known to exhibit some antibacterial activity against infections such as bacterial vaginosis and candidiasis.
Boric Acid has been reported in Caenorhabditis elegans with data available.
Boric Acid is a weakly acidic hydrate of boric oxide with mild antiseptic, antifungal, and antiviral properties.  The exact mechanism of action of boric acid is unknown; generally cytotoxic to all cells.  It is used in the treatment of yeast infections and cold sores.
BORIC ACID is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 4 investigational indications.
Boric acid (H3BO3) also called hydrogen borate, boracic acid, orthoboric acid is a weak acid of boron often used as an antiseptic, insecticide, flame retardant, neutron absorber, or precursor to other chemical compounds. It has the chemical formula H3BO3 (sometimes written B(OH)3), and exists in the form of colorless crystals or a white powder that dissolves in water. When occurring as a mineral, it is called sassolite. Borate is a food contaminant deriving from paper and paperboard in contact with food. It has limited use as an antibacterial agent in caviar.
See also: Disodium octaborate (is active moiety of); Disodium octaborate tetrahydrate (is active moiety of); Boroglycerin (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: B(O)(O)O
formula: BH3O3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 61.84 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 62.0175241 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 62.0175241 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 60.7
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

