Name: Bromine
Text:
Bromine is a dark reddish-brown fuming liquid with a pungent odor. Denser than water and soluble in water. Hence sinks in water. Toxic by inhalation. Accelerates the burning of combustible material. It is very corrosive to tissue and to metals.
Bromine, solution appears as a reddish-brown aqueous solution. The solubility of bromine in water equals 0.33 mg/ mL.
Dibromine is a diatomic bromine.
Bromine is a naturally occurring halogen element with atomic symbol Br, atomic number 35, and atomic mass 79.904. Bromine, which is found in the earth's crust and sea water, is used in many industrial processes, as well as in insecticides, fire extinguishers, pharmaceuticals, and food and drink products. It is characterized as a dark reddish-brown liquid with an irritating pungent odor, and exposure occurs by inhalation of fumes, ingestion, or contact.
bromine is a mineral.
Elemental bromine exists as a diatomic molecule, Br2. It is a dense, mobile, slightly transparent reddish-brown liquid, that evaporates easily at standard temperature and pressures to give an orange vapor (its color resembles nitrogen dioxide) that has a strongly disagreeable odor resembling that of chlorine. It is one of only two elements on the periodic table that are known to be liquids at room temperature (the other being mercury). Bromine is corrosive and toxic, with properties between those of chlorine and iodine. Free bromine does not occur in nature, but occurs as colorless soluble crystalline mineral halide salts, analogous to table salt. Bromine is used in the preparation of brominated flame retardants, it is also used in the preparation of gas additives and pesticides. Bromide compounds, especially potassium bromide, were frequently used as general sedatives in the 19th and early 20th century. Bromides in the form of simple salts are still used as anticonvulsants in both veterinary and human medicine, although the latter use varies from country to country. Bromine has been long believed to have no essential function in mammals, but recent research suggests that bromine is necessary for tissue development. In addition, bromine is used preferentially over chlorine by one antiparasitic enzyme in the human immune system. Organobromides are needed and produced enzymatically from bromide by some lower life forms in the sea, particularly algae. 
A halogen with the atomic symbol Br, atomic number 35, and atomic weight 79.904. It is a volatile reddish-brown liquid that gives off suffocating vapors, is corrosive to the skin, and may cause severe gastroenteritis if ingested.
See also: Bromine, solution (narrower) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Environmental Hazard
smiles: BrBr
formula: Br2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 159.81 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 159.83463 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 157.83668 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

