Name: Calcium
Text:
Calcium appears as a silvery, soft metal that turns grayish white on exposure to air. Used in metallurgy.
Calcium alloys, pyrophoric appears as a white to gray solid. Denser than water. Contact may cause burns to skin, eyes, and mucous membranes. May be toxic by ingestion. Used to make other chemicals.
Calcium atom is an alkaline earth metal atom. It has a role as a macronutrient.
Calcium plays a vital role in the anatomy, physiology and biochemistry of organisms and of the cell, particularly in signal transduction pathways. The skeleton acts as a major mineral storage site for the element and releases Ca2+ ions into the bloodstream under controlled conditions. Circulating calcium is either in the free, ionized form or bound to blood proteins such as serum albumin. Although calcium flow to and from the bone is neutral, about 5 mmol is turned over a day. Bone serves as an important storage point for calcium, as it contains 99% of the total body calcium. Low calcium intake may also be a risk factor in the development of osteoporosis. The best-absorbed form of calcium from a pill is a calcium salt like carbonate or phosphate. Calcium gluconate and calcium lactate are absorbed well by pregnant women. Seniors absorb calcium lactate, gluconate and citrate better unless they take their calcium supplement with a full breakfast.
Calcium is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Calcium has been reported in Artemia salina, Montanoa frutescens, and other organisms with data available.
Calcium is an element with atomic symbol Ca, atomic number 20, and atomic weight 40.08.
calcium is a mineral.
A basic element found in nearly all tissues. It is a member of the alkaline earth family of metals with the atomic symbol Ca, atomic number 20, and atomic weight 40. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the body and combines with phosphorus to form calcium phosphate in the bones and teeth. It is essential for the normal functioning of nerves and muscles and plays a role in blood coagulation (as factor IV) and in many enzymatic processes.
See also: Calcium Carbonate (active moiety of); Calcium Acetate (active moiety of); Calcium Fluoride (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [Ca]
formula: Ca
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 40.08 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 39.9625908 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 39.9625908 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

