Name: Caprolactam
Text:
Caprolactam is a clear to milky white-colored solution with a mild, disagreeable odor. Contact may cause slight irritation to skin, eyes, and mucous membranes. May be mildly toxic by ingestion. The primary hazard is the threat to the environment. Immediate steps should be taken to limit its spread to the environment. As a liquid it can easily penetrate the soil and contaminate groundwater and nearby streams. Used to make other chemicals.
Epsilon-caprolactam is a member of the class of caprolactams that is azepane substituted by an oxo group at position 2. It has a role as a human blood serum metabolite.
Caprolactam is used in the manufacture of synthetic fibers. Acute (short-term) exposure to caprolactam may result in irritation and burning of the eyes, nose, throat, and skin in humans. Headaches, malaise, confusion, and nervous irritation have been observed in workers exposed to caprolactam by inhalation. Chronic (long-term) exposure of workers to caprolactam has been observed to cause peeling of the hands and some eye, nose, and throat irritation, but no other effects on general health. EPA has not classified caprolactam for carcinogenicity.
Caprolactam has been reported in Fagopyrum esculentum, Nicotiana tabacum, and Vitis vinifera with data available.
Cyclic amide of caproic acid used in manufacture of synthetic fibers of the polyamide type. Can cause local irritation.
See also: Polyamide-5 (monomer of).
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C1CCC(=O)NCC1
formula: C6H11NO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 113.16 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 113.084063974 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 113.084063974 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 29.1
Heavy Atom Count: 8
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 90.5
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

