Name: Carbon Disulfide
Text:
Pure carbon disulfide is a colorless liquid with a pleasant odor that is like the smell of chloroform. The impure carbon disulfide that is usually used in most industrial processes is a yellowish liquid with an unpleasant odor, like that of rotting radishes. Carbon disulfide evaporates at room temperature, and the vapor is more than twice as heavy as air. It easily explodes in air and also catches fire very easily. In nature, small amounts of carbon disulfide are found in gases released to the earth's surface as, for example, in volcanic eruptions or over marshes. Commercial carbon disulfide is made by combining carbon and sulfur at very high temperatures
Carbon Disulfide can cause developmental toxicity, female reproductive toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Carbon disulfide appears as a clear colorless to light yellow volatile liquid with a strong disagreeable odor. Flammable over a wide vapor/air concentration range (1%-50%). Vapors are readily ignited; the heat of a common light bulb may suffice. Insoluble in water and more dense than water. Hence sinks in water. Vapors are heavier than air. Used in the manufacture of rayon and cellophane, in the manufacture of flotation agents and as a solvent.
Carbon disulfide is an organosulfur compound and a one-carbon compound.
Exposure to carbon disulfide occurs mainly in the workplace. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure of humans to carbon disulfide has caused changes in breathing and chest pains. Nausea, vomiting, dizziness, fatigue, headache, mood changes, lethargy, blurred vision, delirium, and convulsions have also been reported in humans acutely exposed by inhalation. Neurologic effects, including behavioral and neurophysiological changes, have been observed in chronic (long-term) human and animal inhalation studies. Reproductive effects, such as decreased sperm count and menstrual disturbances, have been observed in humans exposed to carbon disulfide by inhalation. Animal studies support these findings. EPA has not classified carbon disulfide for human carcinogenicity.
Carbon disulfide has been reported in Allium cepa, Lentinula edodes, and Coffea arabica with data available.
Carbon disulfide is found in kohlrabi. Obsolete fumigant against insects in stored grain and potatoes.
A colorless, flammable, poisonous liquid, CS2. It is used as a solvent, and is a counterirritant and has local anesthetic properties but is not used as such. It is highly toxic with pronounced CNS, hematologic, and dermatologic effects.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C(=S)=S
formula: CS2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 76.15 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 75.94414235 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 75.94414235 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 64.2
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 18.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: No 

