Name: Carbon Monoxide
Text:
Carbon monoxide is a colorless, nonirritating, odorless, and tasteless gas. It is found in both outdoor and indoor air.
Carbon Monoxide can cause developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Carbon monoxide is a colorless, odorless gas. Prolonged exposure to carbon monoxide rich atmospheres may be fatal. It is easily ignited. It is just lighter than air and a flame can flash back to the source of leak very easily. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may violently rupture and rocket.
Carbon monoxide, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid) appears as a colorless cryogenic liquid. Prolonged exposure to carbon monoxide rich atmospheres may be fatal. Contact with the liquid can cause severe frostbite. Less dense than air. Easily ignited and a flame can flash back to the source of a leak very easily. Burns with a violet flame. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. It is used in organic synthesis, metallurgy, and a fuel.
Carbon monoxide is a one-carbon compound in which the carbon is joined only to a single oxygen. It is a colourless, odourless, tasteless, toxic gas. It has a role as a neurotoxin, a signalling molecule, a vasodilator agent, a neurotransmitter, a metabolite, a P450 inhibitor, a ligand, a biomarker, a probe, a human metabolite, a mouse metabolite, an EC 1.9.3.1 (cytochrome c oxidase) inhibitor and a mitochondrial respiratory-chain inhibitor. It is a one-carbon compound, a gas molecular entity and a carbon oxide. It is a conjugate base of a carbon monoxide(1+).
Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas that has a slightly lower density than air. It is toxic to hemoglobin utilizing animals (including humans), when encountered in concentrations above about 35 ppm, although it is also formed in normal animal metabolism in low quantities, and is thought to have some normal biological/homeostatic functions. Carbon monoxide (CO), is a ubiquitous environmental product of organic combustion, which is also formed endogenously in the human body, as the byproduct of heme metabolism. Exhaled CO (eCO), similar to exhaled nitric oxide (eNO), has been evaluated as a candidate breath biomarker of pathophysiological states, including smoking status, and inflammatory diseases of the lung and other organs. Exhalation of corbon monoxide values have been studied as potential indicators of inflammation in asthma, stable COPD and exacerbations, cystic fibrosis, lung cancer, and during surgery or critical care.  A test of the diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO), is one of the most clinically valuable tests of lung function testing. The technique was first described  100 years ago, and applied to clinical practice many years after. The DLCO measures the ability of the lungs to transfer gas from inhaled air to the red blood cells in pulmonary capillaries. The DLCO test is both convenient and simple for the patient to undergo. The ten seconds of breath-holding required for the DLCO maneuver is easier for most patients to perform than the forced exhalation required for other respiratory tests.  Carbon monoxide is presently used in small amounts in low oxygen modified atmosphere packaging systems (MAP) for fresh meat to stabilize and maintain natural meat color. This use of CO has been generally recognized as safe (GRAS) in several packaging applications for fresh meat products. Since 2002, FDA has favorably reviewed three GRAS notifications for carbon monoxide use in fresh meat packaging. The FDA classifies this drug as permitted as a food additive in the packaging and preparation of food products, while following the federal code of regulations.  There have been several concerns voiced of over the use of carbon monoxide in food products,,. The European Union has banned the use of carbon monoxide as a color stabilizer in meat and fish. A December 2001 report from the European Commission's Scientific Committee on Food concluded that the gas did not pose a risk provided that food was maintained adequately cold during storage and transport to prevent the growth of microorganisms.  In New Zealand, the use of carbon monoxide in fish preparation has been banned, as it may mask the effects of food spoilage and bacterial growth.
Carbon Monoxide has been reported in Homo sapiens with data available.
Carbon Monoxide is an odorless, tasteless, poisonous gas, CO, that results from the incomplete combustion of carbon. Inhalation causes central nervous system damage and asphyxiation.
CARBON MONOXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 6 investigational indications.
Carbon monoxide, with the chemical formula CO, is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas. It is the product of the incomplete combustion of carbon-containing compounds, notably in internal-combustion engines. It consists of one carbon atom covalently bonded to one oxygen atom. It is a gas at room temperature. Carbon monoxide is a significantly toxic gas and is the most common type of fatal poisoning in many countries. Exposures can lead to significant toxicity of the central nervous system and heart. Carbon monoxide has a higher diffusion coefficient compared to oxygen and the only enzyme in the human body that produces carbon monoxide is heme oxygenase which is located in all cells and breaks down heme. Because it has a higher diffusion coefficient than oxygen the body easily gets rid of any CO made. When CO is not ventilated it binds to hemoglobin, which is the principal oxygen-carrying compound in blood; this produces a compound known as carboxyhemoglobin. The traditional belief is that carbon monoxide toxicity arises from the formation of carboxyhemoglobin, which decreases the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood and inhibits the transport, delivery, and utilization of oxygen by the body. The affinity between hemoglobin and carbon monoxide is approximately 230 times stronger than the affinity between hemoglobin and oxygen so hemoglobin binds to carbon monoxide in preference to oxygen. Following poisoning, long-term sequelae often occur. Carbon monoxide can also have severe effects on the fetus of a pregnant woman. Despite its serious toxicity, CO is extremely useful and underpins much modern technology, being a precursor to a myriad of useful - even life-saving - products. Carbon monoxide, though thought of as a pollutant today, has always been present in the atmosphere, chiefly as a product of volcanic activity. It occurs dissolved in molten volcanic rock at high pressures in the earth's mantle. Carbon monoxide contents of volcanic gases vary from less than 0.01% to as much as 2% depending on the volcano. It also occurs naturally in bushfires. Because natural sources of carbon monoxide are so variable from year to year, it is extremely difficult to accurately measure natural emissions of the gas. (wikipedia).
Carbon monoxide (CO). A poisonous colorless, odorless, tasteless gas. It combines with hemoglobin to form carboxyhemoglobin, which has no oxygen carrying capacity. The resultant oxygen deprivation causes headache, dizziness, decreased pulse and respiratory rates, unconsciousness, and death. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
See also: Tobacco Smoke (part of).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: [C-]#[O+]
formula: CO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 28.010 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 27.994914619 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 27.994914619 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 1
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 10
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

