Name: Carbon Dioxide
Text:
Carbon dioxide appears as a colorless odorless gas at atmospheric temperatures and pressures. Relatively nontoxic and noncombustible. Heavier than air and may asphyxiate by the displacement of air. Soluble in water. Forms carbonic acid, a mild acid. Under prolonged exposure to heat or fire the container may rupture violently and rocket. Used to freeze food, to control chemical reactions, and as a fire extinguishing agent.
Carbon dioxide, refrigerated liquid appears as a colorless liquid. Relatively heavier than air and can asphyxiate by the displacement of air. Under prolonged exposure to heat or fire the container may rupture violently and rocket. Used as a refrigerant and in making carbonated beverages. Used to freeze food, to control chemical reactions and as a fire extinguishing agent.
Carbon dioxide, solid appears as an odorless, white solid. Can cause damaging frostbite. Noncombustible and nontoxic. Liquefies at -109 °F. Can asphyxiate by displacement of air. Used as a refrigerant.
Carbon dioxide is a one-carbon compound with formula CO2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond. A colourless, odourless gas under normal conditions, it is produced during respiration by all animals, fungi and microorganisms that depend directly or indirectly on living or decaying plants for food. It has a role as a solvent, a vasodilator agent, an anaesthetic, an antagonist, a member of greenhouse gas, a human metabolite, a member of food packaging gas, a food propellant, a refrigerant, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite, an Escherichia coli metabolite and a mouse metabolite. It is a one-carbon compound, a gas molecular entity and a carbon oxide.
Carbon dioxide is a colorless, odorless gas vital to life on Earth. This naturally occurring chemical compound is composed of a carbon atom covalently double bonded to two oxygen atoms. Medical Carbon Dioxide is a liquefied medicinal gas, supplied in cylinders filled to a high pressure. Medical Carbon Dioxide may be used in different  situations, e.g.  during bodily investigations,  to inflate body cavities during surgery (such as key-hole surgery), and in solid form (dry ice) for freezing of tissue and removal of warts.
Carbon dioxide is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Carbon dioxide is a Radiographic Contrast Agent. The mechanism of action of carbon dioxide is as a X-Ray Contrast Activity.
Carbon Dioxide has been reported in Homo sapiens with data available.
Carbon Dioxide is a colorless, odorless, incombustible gas resulting from the oxidation of carbon.
CARBON DIOXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 9 investigational indications.
Carbon dioxide is a colorless, odorless gas that can be formed by the body and is necessary for the respiration cycle of plants and animals. Carbon dioxide is produced during respiration by all animals, fungi and microorganisms that depend on living and decaying plants for food, either directly or indirectly. It is, therefore, a major component of the carbon cycle. Additionally, carbon dioxide is used by plants during photosynthesis to make sugars which may either be consumed again in respiration or used as the raw material to produce polysaccharides such as starch and cellulose, proteins and the wide variety of other organic compounds required for plant growth and development. When inhaled at concentrations much higher than usual atmospheric levels, it can produce a sour taste in the mouth and a stinging sensation in the nose and throat. These effects result from the gas dissolving in the mucous membranes and saliva, forming a weak solution of carbonic acid. Carbon dioxide is used by the food industry, the oil industry, and the chemical industry. Carbon dioxide is used to produce carbonated soft drinks and soda water. Traditionally, the carbonation in beer and sparkling wine comes about through natural fermentation, but some manufacturers carbonate these drinks artificially.
Carbon dioxide is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A colorless, odorless gas that can be formed by the body and is necessary for the respiration cycle of plants and animals.
See also: Carbonic Acid (has subclass); Dry Ice (has subclass); Tobacco Smoke (part of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Compressed Gas
smiles: C(=O)=O
formula: CO2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 44.009 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 43.989829239 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 43.989829239 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 34.1
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 18.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: No 

