Name: Celecoxib
Text:
Celecoxib is a member of the class of pyrazoles that is 1H-pyrazole which is substituted at positions 1, 3 and 5 by 4-sulfamoylphenyl, trifluoromethyl and p-tolyl groups, respectively. A cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, it is used in the treatment of arthritis. It has a role as a cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor, a geroprotector, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug and a non-narcotic analgesic. It is a member of toluenes, a sulfonamide, a member of pyrazoles and an organofluorine compound.
Celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which is known for its decreased risk of causing gastrointestinal bleeding compared to other NSAIDS. It is used to manage symptoms of various types of arthritis pain and in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) to reduce precancerous polyps in the colon. It is marketed by Pfizer under the brand name Celebrex, and was initially granted FDA approval in 1998.   Interestingly, selective COX-2 inhibitors (especially celecoxib), have been evaluated as potential cancer chemopreventive and therapeutic drugs in clinical trials for a variety of malignancies.
Celecoxib is a Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug. The mechanism of action of celecoxib is as a Cyclooxygenase Inhibitor.
Celecoxib is a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) with selectively for inhibition of cycloxgenase-2 (Cox-2), which is widely used in the therapy of arthritis. Celecoxib has been linked to rare instances of idiosyncratic drug induced liver disease.
Celecoxib is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with a diaryl-substituted pyrazole structure. Celecoxib selectively inhibits cyclo-oxygenase-2 activity (COX-2); COX-2 inhibition may result in apoptosis and a reduction in tumor angiogenesis and metastasis.
CELECOXIB is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1998 and has 18 approved and 95 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
Celecoxib is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used in the treatment of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, acute pain, painful menstruation and menstrual symptoms, and to reduce numbers of colon and rectum polyps in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis. It is marketed by Pfizer under the brand name Celebrex. In some countries, it is branded Celebra. Celecoxib is available by prescription in capsule form.
A pyrazole derivative and selective CYCLOOXYGENASE 2 INHIBITOR that is used to treat symptoms associated with RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS; OSTEOARTHRITIS and JUVENILE ARTHRITIS, as well as the management of ACUTE PAIN.
See also: Celecoxib tramadol hydrochloride CO-crystal (is active moiety of); Amlodipine Besylate; Celecoxib (component of); Celecoxib; Tramadol Hydrochloride (component of).
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=CC=C(C=C1)C2=CC(=NN2C3=CC=C(C=C3)S(=O)(=O)N)C(F)(F)F
formula: C17H14F3N3O2S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 381.4 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 381.07588236 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 381.07588236 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 86.4
Heavy Atom Count: 26
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 577
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

