Name: Chlorine
Text:
At room temperature, chlorine is a yellow-green gas that is heavier than air and has a strong irritating odor. It can be converted to a liquid under pressure or cold temperatures. Chlorine is mainly used as bleach in the manufacture of paper and cloth and to make a wide variety of products.
Chlorine appears as a greenish yellow gas with a pungent suffocating odor. Toxic by inhalation. Slightly soluble in water. Liquefies at -35 °C and room pressure. Readily liquefied by pressure applied at room temperature. Contact with unconfined liquid can cause frostbite by evaporative cooling. Does not burn but, like oxygen, supports combustion. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations or short-term inhalation of high concentrations has ill effects. Vapors are much heavier than air and tend to settle in low areas. Contact CHEMTREC to activate chlorine response team 800-424-9300. Used to purify water, bleach wood pulp, and to make other chemicals.   Rate of onset: Immediate to hours  Persistence: Minutes to hours  Odor threshold: 3.5 ppm  Source/use/other hazard: Cleaner/disinfectant in many industries; water treatment; WWI war gas; irritating corr fumes heavier than air.
Dichlorine is a diatomic chlorine and a gas molecular entity. It has a role as a bleaching agent.
Chlorine is a stongly oxidizing agent and the third most electronegative element which belongs to the group of halogens with the atomic number 17 and symbol Cl. Being a yellow-green gas at room temperature, chlorine is the second most abundant halogen on Earth. It is commonly used in sanitation, disinfection and antiseptic processes. It was also used in chemical warfare and in rocket fuel.
Chlorine is a commonly used household cleaner and disinfectant. Chlorine is a potent irritant to the eyes, the upper respiratory tract, and lungs. Chronic (long-term) exposure to chlorine gas in workers has resulted in respiratory effects, including eye and throat irritation and airflow obstruction. No information is available on the carcinogenic effects of chlorine in humans from inhalation exposure. A National Toxicology Program (NTP) study showed no evidence of carcinogenic activity in male rats or male and female mice, and equivocal evidence in female rats, from ingestion of chlorinated water. EPA has not classified chlorine for potential carcinogenicity.
Chlorine is a naturally occurring halogen element with atomic symbol Cl, atomic number 17, and atomic mass 35.453. Chlorine is used in many industrial processes, as well as in pesticides, pharmaceuticals, and water purification. It is characterized as a greenish-yellow gas with a pungent odor, and exposure occurs by inhalation, ingestion, or contact.
chlorine is a mineral.
In nature, chlorine is most abundant as a chloride ion. Physiologically, it exists as an ion in the body. The chloride ion is an essential anion that the body needs for many critical functions. Chloride is a prominent negatively charged ion of the blood, where it represents 70% of the body’s total negative ion content. On average, an adult human body contains approximately 115 grams of chloride, making up about 0.15% of total body weight. The suggested amount of chloride intake ranges from 750 to 900 milligrams per day, based on the fact that total obligatory loss of chloride in the average person is close to 530 milligrams per day. Chloride helps keep the body's acid-base balance. The amount of chloride in the blood is carefully controlled by the kidneys. In addition to its functions as an electrolyte, chloride combines with hydrogen in the stomach to make hydrochloric acid, a powerful digestive enzyme that is responsible for the break down of proteins, absorption of other metallic minerals, and activation of intrinsic factor, which in turn absorbs vitamin B12. Chloride ions also have other important physiological roles. For instance, in the central nervous system, the inhibitory action of glycine and some of the action of GABA relies on the entry of Cl- into specific neurons. Also, the chloride-bicarbonate exchanger biological transport protein relies on the chloride ion to increase the blood's capacity of carbon dioxide, in the form of the bicarbonate ion. Chloride-transporting proteins (CLC) play fundamental roles in many tissues in the plasma membrane as well as in intracellular membranes. CLC proteins form a gene family that comprises nine members in mammals, at least four of which are involved in human genetic diseases. GABA(A) receptors are pentameric complexes that function as ligand-gated chloride ion channels. WNK kinases are a family of serine-threonine kinases that have been shown to play an essential role in the regulation of electrolyte homeostasis, and they are found in diverse epithelia throughout the body that are involved in chloride ion flux. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by alterations in the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTCR) gene that result in deranged sodium and chloride ion transport channels. (A7709, A7710, A7711, A7712, A11065).
Under standard conditions, chlorine exists as a diatomic molecule. Chlorine is a highly toxic, pale yellow-green gas that has a specific strong smell similar to the smell of bleach. In nature, chlorine is most abundant as a chloride ion. In industry, elemental chlorine is usually produced by the electrolysis of sodium chloride dissolved in water. This method, the chloralkali process industrialized in 1892, now provides essentially all industrial chlorine gas. Along with chlorine, the method yields hydrogen gas and sodium hydroxide (with sodium hydroxide actually being the most crucial of the three industrial products produced by the process. Principal applications of chlorine are in the production of a wide range of industrial and consumer products. For example, it is used in making plastics, solvents for dry cleaning and metal degreasing, textiles, agrochemicals and pharmaceuticals, insecticides, dyestuffs, household cleaning products, etc.  Chlorine is added both to pesticides and pharmaceuticals to make the molecules more resistant to enzymatic degradation by bacteria, insects, and mammals, but this property also has the effect of prolonging the residence time of these compounds when they enter the environment. In this respect chlorinated organics have some resemblance to fluorinated organics. Chlorine is used to prepare sodium and calcium hypochlorites. It is used as a disinfectant in water treatment, especially to make drinking water and in large public swimming pools . Chlorine was used extensively to bleach wood pulp, but this use has decreased significantly due to environmental concerns.
An element with atomic symbol Cl, atomic number 17, and atomic weight 35, and member of the halogen family.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Compressed Gas and Acute Toxic and Environmental Hazard
smiles: ClCl
formula: Cl2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 70.90 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 69.9377054 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 69.9377054 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

