Name: Chlorine Dioxide
Text:
Chlorine dioxide is a yellow to reddish-yellow manufactured gas. It does not occur naturally in the environment. When added to water, chlorine dioxide forms chlorite ion, which is also a very reactive chemical. Chlorine dioxide is used as a bleaching agent at paper manufacturing plants, and in public water treatment facilities to make water safe to drink. In 2001, chlorine dioxide and chlorite were used to decontaminate a number of public buildings following the release of anthrax spores in the United States.
Chlorine dioxide hydrate, frozen is an orange colored solid, appearing as a block of ice, with a faint odor of chlorine. It may only be shipped in the frozen state and then only by private or contract motor carrier. The melting point of the hydrate is around 30 °F. If it should thaw and further warm up, chlorine dioxide gas is given off. The gas is toxic by inhalation. The gas and liquid are violently decomposed by organic materials. The gas will decompose explosively at temperatures below the boiling point of water. It is used to bleach wood pulp, fats and oils; in processing flour, and for water purification.   Chlorine dioxide is a yellow to reddish gas or a red-brown liquid below 52 deg. F. with an unpleasant odor similar to chlorine.
Dioxidochlorine(.) is a chlorine dioxide.
Chlorine Dioxide has been used in trials studying the treatment of Halitosis.
Chlorine Dioxide is a chlorine compound and oxidizing agent with disinfectant, antiviral and anti-bacterial activities. Upon administration, chlorine dioxide may inactivate the pathogen and may prevent spreading.
See also: Chlorine dioxide; water (component of); Ammonium chloride; chlorine dioxide (component of); Chlorine dioxide; titanium dioxide (component of).
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Environmental Hazard
smiles: O=Cl[O]
formula: ClO2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 67.45 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 66.9586819 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 66.9586819 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 18.1
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 7.5
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

