Name: Chloral Hydrate
Text:
Chloral Hydrate can cause cancer according to California Labor Code.
Transparent colorless crystals or white crystalline solid. Aromatic penetrating slightly acrid odor and a slightly bitter caustic taste. Alcoholic solution (1 in 20) does not at once redden moistened blue litmus paper. (NTP, 1992)
Chloral hydrate is an organochlorine compound that is the hydrate of trichloroacetaldehyde. It has a role as a sedative, a general anaesthetic, a mouse metabolite and a xenobiotic. It is an organochlorine compound, an aldehyde hydrate and an ethanediol.
Chloral hydrate is a DEA Schedule IV controlled substance. Substances in the DEA Schedule IV have a low potential for abuse relative to substances in Schedule III. It is a Depressants substance.
A hypnotic and sedative used in the treatment of insomnia. The safety margin is too narrow for chloral hydrate to be used as a general anesthetic in humans, but it is commonly used for that purpose in animal experiments. It is no longer considered useful as an anti-anxiety medication.
Chloral hydrate is a mild hypnotic that is used to treat simple insomnia. Despite many years of use, chloral hydrate has not been implicated in causing serum enzyme elevations or clinically apparent liver injury.
Chloral Hydrate is a synthetic monohydrate of chloral with sedative, hypnotic, and anticonvulsive properties. Chloral hydrate is converted to the active compound trichloroethanol by hepatic alcohol dehydrogenase. The agent interacts with various neurotransmitter-operated ion channels, thereby enhancing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor mediated chloride currents and inhibiting amino acid receptor-activated ion currents. In addition, chloral hydrate enhances the agonistic effects of glycine receptors, inhibits AMPA-induced calcium influx in cortical neurons, and facilitates 5-HT 3 receptor-mediated currents in ganglionic neurons. Overall, this results in a depressive effect on the central nervous system.
CHLORAL HYDRATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 5 investigational indications.
A hypnotic and sedative used in the treatment of INSOMNIA.
See also: Chloral (has active moiety); Chloral Betaine (is active moiety of); Dichloralphenazone (is active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic
smiles: C(C(Cl)(Cl)Cl)(O)O
formula: C2H3Cl3O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 165.40 g/mol
XLogP3: 1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 163.919862 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 163.919862 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 40.5
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 56.4
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

