Name: Chloroform
Text:
Chloroform is a colorless liquid with a pleasant, nonirritating odor and a slightly sweet taste. It will burn only when it reaches very high temperatures. In the past, chloroform was used as an inhaled anesthetic during surgery, but it isn't used that way today. Today, chloroform is used to make other chemicals and can also be formed in small amounts when chlorine is added to water. Other names for chloroform aretrichloromethaneandmethyl trichloride.
Chloroform can cause cancer and developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Chloroform appears as a clear colorless liquid with a characteristic odor. Denser (12.3 lb / gal) than water and slightly soluble in water. Hence sinks in water. Nonflammable under most conditions, but burns under extreme conditions. May cause illness by inhalation, skin absorption or ingestion. Used as a solvent, to make other chemicals, as a fumigant.
Chloroform is a one-carbon compound that is methane in which three of the hydrogens are replaced by chlorines. It has a role as an inhalation anaesthetic, a non-polar solvent, a carcinogenic agent, a central nervous system drug and a refrigerant. It is a one-carbon compound and a member of chloromethanes.
Chloroform is an organic small molecule, member of the family of the chloromethanes that presents a formula of CHCl3. It is a colorless, sweet-smelling, dense liquid that is produced on a large scale as a precursor to PTFE and refrigerants, but the latter application is declining. Chloroform is part of the FDA drug products withdrawn or removed from the market for reasons of safety or effectiveness.
Chloroform may be released to the air as a result of its formation in the chlorination of drinking water, wastewater and swimming pools. Other sources include pulp and paper mills, hazardous waste sites, and sanitary landfills. The major effect from acute (short-term) inhalation exposure to chloroform is central nervous system depression. Chronic (long-term) exposure to chloroform by inhalation in humans has resulted in effects on the liver, including hepatitis and jaundice, and central nervous system effects, such as depression and irritability. Chloroform has been shown to be carcinogenic in animals after oral exposure, resulting in an increase in kidney and liver tumors. EPA has classified chloroform as a Group B2, probable human carcinogen.
Chloroform has been reported in Basella alba, Manilkara zapota, and other organisms with data available.
Chloroform is a colorless, volatile, liquid derivative of trichloromethane with an ether-like odor.  Formerly used as an inhaled anesthetic during surgery, the primary use of chloroform today is in industry, where it is used as a solvent and in the production of the refrigerant freon.  Acute chloroform toxicity results in impaired liver function, cardiac arrhythmia, nausea and central nervous system dysfunction.  As a byproduct of water chlorination, chloroform may be present in small amounts in chlorinated water. (NCI04)
CHLOROFORM is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV. It was withdrawn in at least one region.
Chloroform is found in spearmint. Indirect food additive arising from adhesives and polymers Chloroform is a common solvent in the laboratory because it is relatively unreactive, miscible with most organic liquids, and conveniently volatile. Chloroform is used as a solvent in the pharmaceutical industry and for producing dyes and pesticides. Chloroform is an effective solvent for alkaloids in their base form and thus plant material is commonly extracted with chloroform for pharmaceutical processing. For example, it is commercially used to extract morphine from poppies and scopolamine from Datura plants. Chloroform containing deuterium (heavy hydrogen), CDCl3, is a common solvent used in NMR spectroscopy. It can be used to bond pieces of acrylic glass (also known under the trade names Perspex and Plexiglas). Chloroform is a solvent of phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol 25:24:1 is used to dissolve non-nucleic acid biomolecules in DNA and RNA extractions. Chloroform is the organic compound with formula CHCl3. It does not undergo combustion in air, although it will burn when mixed with more flammable substances. It is a member of a group of compounds known as trihalomethanes. Chloroform has myriad uses as a reagent and a solvent. It is also considered an environmental hazard. Several million tons are produced annually. The output of this process is a mixture of the four chloromethanes: chloromethane, dichloromethane, chloroform (trichloromethane), and carbon tetrachloride, which are then separated by distillation.

Chloroform has been shown to exhibit antifoaming agent, anti-coagulant, depressant, analgesic and anti-fungal functions (A7671, A7672, A7673, A7674, A7675).

Chloroform belongs to the family of Organochlorides. These are organic compounds containing a chlorine atom.
A commonly used laboratory solvent. It was previously used as an anesthetic, but was banned from use in the U.S. due to its suspected carcinogenicity.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C(Cl)(Cl)Cl
formula: CHCl3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 119.37 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 117.914383 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 117.914383 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

