Name: Chromium Trioxide
Text:
Chromium trioxide, anhydrous appears as a dark purplish red solid. Under prolonged exposure to fire or heat the containers may explode. Highly toxic. A confirmed human carcinogen.
Chromium trioxide is a chromium oxide composed of a single chromium bound (oxidation state +6) to three oxygens; the acidic anhydride of chromic acid.
Chromium Trioxide is a dark red to brown colored, crystalline, inorganic compound that emits toxic chromium fumes upon heating. Chromium trioxide is highly corrosive and is a strong oxidizing agent. This substance is mainly used in the production of wood preservatives and organic chemicals, but is also used in metal finishing and chrome plating and as a corrosion inhibitor. Chromium trioxide primarily affects the nose, throat and lungs causing ulcerations, shortness of breath, bronchitis, pneumonia and asthma-like allergy but can also affect the gastrointestinal tract, liver, kidneys and immune system. This substance is a known human carcinogen and is associated with an increased risk of developing lung cancer and cancer of the sinonasal cavity. (NCI05)
Chromium(VI) oxide is a chemical compound of hexavalent chromium. It is used mainly in electroplating. Hexavalent chromium is more toxic than other oxidation states of the chromium atom because of its greater ability to enter cells and higher redox potential. (L50)
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: O=[Cr](=O)=O
formula: CrO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 99.994 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 99.925249 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 99.925249 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 51.2
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 61.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

