Name: Clofibrate
Text:
Clofibrate can cause cancer according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Clofibrate is the ethyl ester of clofibric acid. It has a role as an anticholesteremic drug, an antilipemic drug, a geroprotector and a PPARalpha agonist. It is an aromatic ether, a member of monochlorobenzenes and an ethyl ester. It is functionally related to a clofibric acid.
A fibric acid derivative used in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia type III and severe hypertriglyceridemia. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p986)
Clofibrate is a fibric acid derivative used in the therapy of hypertriglyceridemia and dyslipidemia. Clofibrate therapy is associated with mild and transient serum aminotransferase elevations and with rare instances of acute liver injury.
Clofibrate has been reported in Camellia sinensis with data available.
Clofibrate is an aryloxyisobutyric acid derivate with antihyperlipidemic activity. Although the exact mechanism of action has not been fully characterized, clofibrate may enhance the conversion of very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) to low-density lipoprotein (LDL), decreasing the production of hepatic VLDL, inhibiting cholesterol production, and increasing fecal excretion of neutral sterols.
CLOFIBRATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1967 and is indicated for cardiovascular disease and has 2 investigational indications.
A fibric acid derivative used in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemia type III and severe hypertriglyceridemia.
A fibric acid derivative used in the treatment of HYPERLIPOPROTEINEMIA TYPE III and severe HYPERTRIGLYCERIDEMIA. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p986)
See also: Clofibric Acid (has active moiety).
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: CCOC(=O)C(C)(C)OC1=CC=C(C=C1)Cl
formula: C12H15ClO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 242.70 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 242.0709720 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 242.0709720 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 35.5
Heavy Atom Count: 16
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 232
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

