Name: Cobalt
Text:
Cobalt is a naturally occurring element found in rocks, soil, water, plants, and animals. Cobalt is used to produce alloys used in the manufacture of aircraft engines, magnets, grinding and cutting tools, artificial hip and knee joints. Cobalt compounds are also used to color glass, ceramics and paints, and used as a drier for porcelain enamel and paints. Radioactive cobalt is used for commercial and medical purposes.60Co (read as cobalt sixty) is used for sterilizing medical equipment and consumer products, radiation therapy for treating cancer patients, manufacturing plastics, and irradiating food.57Co is used in medical and scientific research. It takes about 5.27 years for half of60Co to give off its radiation and about 272 days for57Co; this is called the half-life.
Cobalt Metal Powder can cause cancer according to The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).
Cobalt appears as a black powder.
Cobalt atom is a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27. It has a role as a micronutrient. It is a cobalt group element atom and a metal allergen.
A trace element that is a component of vitamin B12. It has the atomic symbol Co, atomic number 27, and atomic weight 58.93. It is used in nuclear weapons, alloys, and pigments. Deficiency in animals leads to anemia; its excess in humans can lead to erythrocytosis. Except for radioactive forms of cobalt and cobalamin, the FDA withdrew its approval for the use of drug products containing cobalt salts.
Cobalt is a natural element found throughout the environment. Acute (short-term) exposure to high levels of cobalt by inhalation in humans and animals results in respiratory effects, such as a significant decrease in ventilatory function, congestion, edema, and hemorrhage of the lung. Respiratory effects are also the major effects noted from chronic (long-term) exposure to cobalt by inhalation, with respiratory irritation, wheezing, asthma, pneumonia, and fibrosis noted. Cardiac effects, congestion of the liver, kidneys, and conjunctiva, and immunological effects have also been noted in chronically-exposed humans. Cobalt is an essential element in humans, as a constituent of vitamin B . Human studies are inconclusive regarding 12 inhalation exposure to cobalt and cancer, and the one available oral study did not report a correlation between cobalt in the drinking water and cancer deaths. EPA has not classified cobalt for carcinogenicity.
Cobalt is a Standardized Chemical Allergen. The physiologic effect of cobalt is by means of Increased Histamine Release, and Cell-mediated Immunity.
Cobalt is an element with atomic symbol Co, atomic number 27, and atomic weight 58.93.
cobalt is a mineral.
A trace element that is a component of vitamin B12. It has the atomic symbol Co, atomic number 27, and atomic weight 58.93. It is used in nuclear weapons, alloys, and pigments. Deficiency in animals leads to anemia; its excess in humans can lead to erythrocytosis.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: [Co]
formula: Co
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 58.93319 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 58.933194 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 58.933194 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

