Name: Codeine
Text:
Codeine appears as colorless to white crystalline solid or white powder. Sublimes at 284 °F. Odorless. Bitter taste. pH (saturated aqueous solution) 9.8. (NTP, 1992)
Codeine is a morphinane alkaloid found in the opium poppy, Papaver somniferum var. album; has analgesic, anti-tussive and anti-diarrhoeal properties. It has a role as an opioid analgesic, an antitussive, an opioid receptor agonist, a prodrug, a xenobiotic, an environmental contaminant and a drug allergen. It is an organic heteropentacyclic compound and a morphinane alkaloid. It is functionally related to a morphine. It is a conjugate base of a codeine(1+).
Codeine is a DEA Schedule II controlled substance. Substances in the DEA Schedule II have a high potential for abuse which may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence.
The relief of pain (analgesia) is a primary goal for enhancing the quality of life of patients and for increasing the ability of patients to engage in day to day activities. Codeine, an opioid analgesic, was originally approved in the US in 1950 and is a drug used to decrease pain by increasing the threshold for pain without impairing consciousness or altering other sensory functions. Opiates such as codeine are derived from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum (Papaveraceae).  Codeine is utilized as a central analgesic, sedative, hypnotic, antinociceptive, and antiperistaltic agent, and is also recommended in certain diseases with incessant coughing.[LABEL,A175096]
Codeine anhydrous is an Opioid Agonist. The mechanism of action of codeine anhydrous is as a Full Opioid Agonist.
Codeine is one of the natural plant alkaloids found in extracts of opium and is commonly used to treat mild-to-moderate pain and cough. Codeine, like other opioids, has not been linked to serum enzyme elevations during therapy or to clinically apparent liver injury.
Codeine has been reported in Papaver armeniacum, Papaver somniferum, and Papaver bracteatum with data available.
Codeine is a naturally occurring phenanthrene alkaloid and opioid agonist with analgesic, antidiarrheal and antitussive activities. Codeine mimics the actions of endogenous opioids by binding to the opioid receptors at many sites within the central nervous system (CNS). Stimulation of mu-subtype opioid receptors results in a decrease in the release of nociceptive neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine and noradrenaline; in addition, the codeine metabolite morphine induces opening of G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels and blocks the opening of N-type voltage-gated calcium channels, resulting in hyperpolarization and reduced neuronal excitability. Stimulation of gut mu-subtype opioid receptors results in a reduction in intestinal motility and delayed intestinal transit times. Antitussive activity is mediated through codeine's action on the cough center in the medulla.
CODEINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1952 and has 5 approved and 9 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
In the United States, codeine is regulated by the Controlled Substances Act. It is a Schedule II controlled substance for pain-relief products containing codeine alone. In combination with aspirin or acetaminophen (paracetamol/tylenol) it is listed as Schedule III. Codeine is also available outside the United States as an over-the-counter drug (Schedule V) in liquid cough-relief formulations. Internationally, codeine is a Schedule II drug under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. In the United Kingdom, codeine is regulated by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971; it is a Class B Drug, except for concentrations of less than 8mg when combined with paracetamol - or 12.5mg when combined with ibuprofen - which are available in many over the counter preparations. it is a Class B Drug, except for concentrations of less than 8mg when combined with paracetamol - or 12.5mg when combined with ibuprofen - which are available in many over the counter preparations. An opioid analgesic related to morphine but with less potent analgesic properties and mild sedative effects. It also acts centrally to suppress cough. Codeine or methylmorphine is an opiate used for its analgesic, antitussive and antidiarrheal properties. It is marketed as the salts codeine sulfate and codeine phosphate. Codeine hydrochloride is more commonly marketed in contintental Europe and other regions. Codeine is an alkaloid found in opium in concentrations ranging from 0.3 to 3.0 percent. While codeine can be extracted from opium, most codeine is synthesized from morphine through the process of O-methylation. In the United Kingdom, codeine is regulated by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971; Codeine or methylmorphine is an opiate used for its analgesic, antitussive and antidiarrheal properties. It is marketed as the salts codeine sulfate and codeine phosphate. Codeine hydrochloride is more commonly marketed in contintental Europe and other regions. Codeine is an alkaloid found in opium in concentrations ranging from 0.3 to 3.0 percent. While codeine can be extracted from opium, most codeine is synthesized from morphine through the process of O-methylation. Theoretically, a dose of approximately 200 mg (oral) of codeine must be administered to give equivalent analgesia to 30 mg (oral) of morphine (Rossi, 2004). It is not used, however, in single doses of greater than 60mg (and no more than 240 mg in 24 hours) since there is a ceiling effect. [PubChem]Opiate receptors are coupled with G-protein receptors and function as both positive and negative regulators of synaptic transmission via G-proteins that activate effector proteins. Binding of the opiate stimulates the exchange of GTP for GDP on the G-protein complex. As the effector system is adenylate cyclase and cAMP located at the inner surface of the plasma membrane, opioids decrease intracellular cAMP by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Subsequently, the release of nociceptive neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine and noradrenaline is inhibited. Opioids also inhibit the release of vasopressin, somatostatin, insulin and glucagon. Codeine's analgesic activity is, most likely, due to its conversion to morphine. Opioids close N-type voltage-operated calcium channels (OP2-receptor agonist) and open calcium-dependent inwardly rectifying potassium channels (OP3 and OP1 receptor agonist). This results in hyperpolarization and reduced neuronal excitability.
An opioid analgesic related to MORPHINE but with less potent analgesic properties and mild sedative effects. It also acts centrally to suppress cough.
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CN1CC[C@]23[C@@H]4[C@H]1CC5=C2C(=C(C=C5)OC)O[C@H]3[C@H](C=C4)O
formula: C18H21NO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 299.4 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 299.15214353 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 299.15214353 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 41.9
Heavy Atom Count: 22
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 509
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 5
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

