Name: Cumene
Text:
Cumene can cause cancer according to The National Toxicology Program.
Cumene appears as a clear colorless liquid with an aromatic odor. Less dense than water and insoluble in water. Vapors heavier than air. May be moderately toxic by inhalation, ingestion and skin absorption.
Cumene is an alkylbenzene that is benzene carrying an isopropyl group.
Cumene is used in a variety of petroleum products. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure to cumene may cause headaches, dizziness, drowsiness, slight incoordination, and unconsciousness in humans. Cumene has a potent central nervous system (CNS) depressant action characterized by a slow induction period and long duration of narcotic effects in animals. Cumene is a skin and eye irritant. No information is available on the chronic (long-term), reproductive, developmental, or carcinogenic effects of cumene in humans. Animal studies have reported increased liver, kidney, and adrenal weights from inhalation exposure to cumene. EPA has classified cumene as a Group D, not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity.
Cumene has been reported in Camellia sinensis, Saxifraga stolonifera, and other organisms with data available.
Isopropylbenzene is found in ceylan cinnamon. Isopropylbenzene is a trace constituent of ginger oil (Zingiber officinale) Cumene is the common name for isopropylbenzene, an organic compound that is an aromatic hydrocarbon. It is a constituent of crude oil and refined fuels. It is a flammable colorless liquid that has a boiling point of 152 C. Nearly all the cumene that is produced as a pure compound on an industrial scale is converted to cumene hydroperoxide, which is an intermediate in the synthesis of other industrially important chemicals such as phenol and acetone.

Isopropylbenzene has been shown to exhibit catabolic function (A7843).
See also: 2-Phenyl-2-propyl radical (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CC(C)C1=CC=CC=C1
formula: C9H12
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 120.19 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 120.093900383 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 120.093900383 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 9
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 68.1
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

