Name: Cyanamide
Text:
Calcium cyanamide, with more than 0.1% calcium carbide appears as a colorless to gray, odorless solid. May cause illness from ingestion. May irritate the skin. If exposed to water or high temperatures, calcium cyanamide may generate toxic and flammable fumes. Used to make pesticides and in fertilizers.
Cyanamide appears as colorless deliquescent crystals. Mp: 45 °C; bp: 260 °C. Density: 1.282 g cm-3. Quite soluble in water (77 g / 100 g solution at 15 °C). Soluble in butanol, methyl ethyl ketone, ethyl acetate, alcohols, phenols, amines, ethers. Note: The term "cyanamide" is also used to refer to the important compound calcium cyanamide, which is a different chemical.
Cyanamide is a nitrile that is hydrogen cyanide in which the hydrogen has been replaced by an amino group. It has a role as an EC 1.2.1.3 [aldehyde dehydrogenase (NAD(+))] inhibitor. It is a nitrile and a one-carbon compound. It is a conjugate acid of a cyanamide(2-).
Cyanamide is an organic compound with the formula CN2H2. This white solid is widely used in agriculture and the production of pharmaceuticals and other organic compounds. It is also used as an alcohol deterrent drug in Canada, Europe and Japan. The molecule features a nitrile group attached to an amino group. Although it is similar in structure to hydrogen cyanide, it is not as toxic. Derivatives of this compound are also referred to as cyanamides, the most common being calcium cyanamide (CaCN2). Calcium cyanamide or CaCN2 is a calcium compound used as fertilizer, first synthesized in 1898 by Adolph Frank and Nikodem Caro (Frank-Caro process). It is formed when calcium carbide reacts with nitrogen. It is commercially known as Nitrolime. In enzymology, a cyanamide hydratase is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction.
A cyanide compound which has been used as a fertilizer, defoliant and in many manufacturing processes. It often occurs as the calcium salt, sometimes also referred to as cyanamide. The citrated calcium salt is used in the treatment of alcoholism.
See also: Lead(2+) cyanamide (annotation moved to); Calcium Carbimide (annotation moved to); Cyanamide-15N2 (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C(#N)N
formula: CH2N2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 42.040 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 42.021798072 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 42.021798072 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 49.8
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 29.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

