Name: Cyclophosphamide
Text:
Cyclophosphamide (Hydrated) can cause cancer according to California Labor Code. It can cause developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts. It can cause female reproductive toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Cyclophosphamide is a fine white crystalline powder. Odorless with a slightly bitter taste. Melting point 41-45 °C. A 2% solution has pH of 4 to 6. Used medicinally as an antineoplastic agent.
Cyclophosphamide is a phosphorodiamide that is 1,3,2-oxazaphosphinan-2-amine 2-oxide substituted by two 2-chloroethyl groups at the amino nitrogen atom. It has a role as a carcinogenic agent, an alkylating agent, an immunosuppressive agent, an antineoplastic agent, an antirheumatic drug, an environmental contaminant, a xenobiotic and a drug allergen. It is a phosphorodiamide, a nitrogen mustard and an organochlorine compound.
Precursor of an alkylating nitrogen mustard antineoplastic and immunosuppressive agent that must be activated in the liver to form the active aldophosphamide. It has been used in the treatment of lymphoma and leukemia. Its side effect, alopecia, has been used for defleecing sheep. Cyclophosphamide may also cause sterility, birth defects, mutations, and cancer.
Cyclophosphamide anhydrous is an Alkylating Drug. The mechanism of action of cyclophosphamide anhydrous is as an Alkylating Activity.
Cyclophosphamide is an alkylating agent used in the treatment of several forms of cancer including leukemias, lymphomas and breast cancer. Cyclophosphamide therapy is associated with minor transient serum enzyme elevations and has been linked to rare cases of acute liver injury. In addition, when given in high doses as a part of a myeloablative therapy, cyclophosphamide can cause acute sinusoidal obstruction syndrome.
Cyclophosphamide is a synthetic alkylating agent chemically related to the nitrogen mustards with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive activities. In the liver, cyclophosphamide is converted to the active metabolites aldophosphamide and phosphoramide mustard, which bind to DNA, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and initiating cell death.
Cyclophosphamide Anhydrous is the anhydrous form of cyclophosphamide, a synthetic nitrogen mustard alkylating agent, with antineoplastic and immunosuppressive activities. In the liver, cyclophosphamide is converted to active metabolites including phosphoramide mustard, which binds to and crosslinks DNA and RNA, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and protein synthesis. This agent, at low doses, is also a potent immunosuppressant primarily by depleting T-regulatory cells.
CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE ANHYDROUS is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1959 and has 11 approved and 240 investigational indications.
Precursor of an alkylating nitrogen mustard antineoplastic and immunosuppressive agent that must be activated in the liver to form the active aldophosphamide. It has been used in the treatment of lymphoma and leukemia. Its side effect, alopecia, has been used for defleecing sheep. Cyclophosphamide may also cause sterility, birth defects, mutations, and cancer.
Precursor of an alkylating nitrogen mustard antineoplastic and immunosuppressive agent that must be activated in the LIVER to form the active aldophosphamide. It has been used in the treatment of LYMPHOMA and LEUKEMIA. Its side effect, ALOPECIA, has been used for defleecing sheep. Cyclophosphamide may also cause sterility, birth defects, mutations, and cancer.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C1CNP(=O)(OC1)N(CCCl)CCCl
formula: C7H15Cl2N2O2P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 261.08 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 260.0248201 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 260.0248201 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 41.6
Heavy Atom Count: 14
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 212
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

