Name: Daunorubicin
Text:
Daunomycin can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Anthracycline antibiotic. An anticancer agent.
Daunorubicin is a natural product found in Actinomadura roseola. It has a role as an antineoplastic agent and a bacterial metabolite. It is an anthracycline, a member of tetracenequinones, a member of p-quinones and an aminoglycoside antibiotic. It is a conjugate base of a daunorubicin(1+). It derives from a hydride of a tetracene.
A very toxic anthracycline aminoglycoside antineoplastic isolated from Streptomyces peucetius and others, used in treatment of leukemia and other neoplasms.
Daunorubicin is an Anthracycline Topoisomerase Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of daunorubicin is as a Topoisomerase Inhibitor.
Daunorubicin is an anthracycline antibiotic that has antineoplastic activity and is used in the therapy of acute leukemia and AIDS related Kaposi sarcoma. Daunorubicin is associated with a low rate of transient serum enzyme and bilirubin elevations during therapy, but has not been implicated in cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury with jaundice.
Daunorubicin has been reported in Streptomyces, Brassica napus, and other organisms with data available.
Daunorubicin is an anthracycline antineoplastic antibiotic with therapeutic effects similar to those of doxorubicin.  Daunorubicin exhibits cytotoxic activity through topoisomerase-mediated interaction with DNA, thereby inhibiting DNA replication and repair and RNA and protein synthesis.
DAUNORUBICIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1979 and has 3 approved and 41 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
Daunorubicin is only found in individuals that have used or taken this drug. It is a very toxic anthracycline aminoglycoside antineoplastic isolated from Streptomyces peucetius and others, used in treatment of leukemia and other neoplasms. [PubChem]Daunorubicin has antimitotic and cytotoxic activity through a number of proposed mechanisms of action: Daunorubicin forms complexes with DNA by intercalation between base pairs, and it inhibits topoisomerase II activity by stabilizing the DNA-topoisomerase II complex, preventing the religation portion of the ligation-religation reaction that topoisomerase II catalyzes.
A very toxic anthracycline aminoglycoside antineoplastic isolated from Streptomyces peucetius and others, used in treatment of LEUKEMIA and other NEOPLASMS.
See also: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C[C@H]1[C@H]([C@H](C[C@@H](O1)O[C@H]2C[C@@](CC3=C2C(=C4C(=C3O)C(=O)C5=C(C4=O)C(=CC=C5)OC)O)(C(=O)C)O)N)O
formula: C27H29NO10
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 527.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 5
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 11
Rotatable Bond Count: 4
Exact Mass: 527.17914612 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 527.17914612 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 186
Heavy Atom Count: 38
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 960
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 6
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

