Name: Diethanolamine
Text:
Diethanolamine can cause cancer according to California Labor Code.
Diethanolamine appears as oily colorless liquid or solid white crystals. Slight rotten fish or ammonia odor. Denser than water. (USCG, 1999)
Diethanolamine is a member of the class of ethanolamines that is ethanolamine having a N-hydroxyethyl substituent. It has a role as a human xenobiotic metabolite. It is functionally related to an ethanolamine.
Diethanolamine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Diethanolamine is used in a number of consumer products, such as shampoos, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals. Limited information is available on the health effects of diethanolamine. Acute (short- term) inhalation exposure to diethanolamine in humans may result in irritation of the nose and throat, and dermal exposure may irritate the skin. No information is available on the chronic (long-term), reproductive, developmental, or carcinogenic effects of diethanolamine in humans. Animal studies have reported effects on the liver, kidney, blood, and central nervous system (CNS) from chronic oral exposure to diethanolamine. The National Toxicology Program (NTP) reported an increased incidence of liver and kidney tumors in mice from dermal exposure to diethanolamine. EPA has not classified diethanolamine for carcinogenicity.
Diethanolamine has been reported in Echinops exaltatus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and other organisms with data available.
DIETHANOLAMINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III and has 1 investigational indication.
Diethanolamine, often abbreviated as DEA, is an organic chemical compound which is both a secondary amine and a dialcohol. A dialcohol has two hydroxyl groups in its molecule. Like other amines, diethanolamine acts as a weak base. Diethanolamine is widely used in the preparation of diethanolamides and diethanolamine salts of long-chain fatty acids that are formulated into soaps and surfactants used in liquid laundry and dishwashing detergents, cosmetics, shampoos, and hair conditioners. Diethanolamine is also used in textile processing, in industrial gas purification to remove acid gases, as an anticorrosion agent in metalworking fluids, and in preparations of agricultural chemicals. Aqueous diethanolamine solutions are used as solvents for numerous drugs that are administered intravenously.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C(CO)NCCO
formula: C4H11NO2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 105.14 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 4
Exact Mass: 105.078978594 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 105.078978594 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 52.5
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 28.9
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

