Name: Dimethoate
Text:
Dimethoate appears as a white crystalline solid, with a camphor-like odor, white to grayish crystals for technical product. This material is a contact and systemic organophosphate insecticide effective against a broad range of insects and mites when applied on a wide range of crops. It has not been produced in the U.S. since 1982. (EPA, 1998)
Dimethoate is a monocarboxylic acid amide that is N-methylacetamide in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group attached to the carbonyl moiety is replaced by a (dimethoxyphosphorothioyl)sulfanediyl group. It has a role as an EC 3.1.1.7 (acetylcholinesterase) inhibitor, an agrochemical, an acaricide, an EC 3.1.1.8 (cholinesterase) inhibitor, an insecticide, a xenobiotic and an environmental contaminant. It is an organic thiophosphate and a monocarboxylic acid amide. It is functionally related to a N-methyl-2-sulfanylacetamide.
Dimethoate is a synthetic organic thiophosphate compound and organophosphate acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is used as a pesticide. It is characterized as a volatile white to gray crystalline solid that has a camphor-like odor, and exposure occurs by inhalation, ingestion, or contact.
Dimethoate is an organophosphate insecticide used to kill mites and insects systemically and on contact. It is used against a wide range of insects, including aphids, thrips, planthoppers and whiteflies on ornamental plants, alfalfa, apples, corn, cotton, grapefruit, grapes, lemons, melons, oranges, pears, pecans, safflower, sorghum, soybeans, tangerines, tobacco, tomatoes, watermelons, wheat and other vegetables. It is also used as a residual wall spray in farm buildings for house flies. Dimethoate has been administered to livestock for control of botflies. Dimethoate is moderately toxic and severe poisoning affects the central nervous system. (L1188)
An organothiophosphorus cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as a systemic and contact insecticide.
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CNC(=O)CSP(=S)(OC)OC
formula: C5H12NO3PS2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 229.3 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 5
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 228.99962259 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 228.99962259 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 105
Heavy Atom Count: 12
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 191
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

