Name: Dimethyl Sulfoxide
Text:
Dimethyl sulfoxide appears as a clear liquid, essentially odorless. Closed cup flash point 192 °F. Vapors are heavier than air. Contact with the skin may cause stinging and burning and lead to an odor of garlic on the breath. An excellent solvent that can transport toxic solutes through the skin. High vapor concentrations may cause headache, dizziness, and sedation.
Dimethyl sulfoxide is a 2-carbon sulfoxide in which the sulfur atom has two methyl substituents. It has a role as a polar aprotic solvent, a radical scavenger, a non-narcotic analgesic, an antidote, a MRI contrast agent, an Escherichia coli metabolite, a geroprotector and an alkylating agent. It is a sulfoxide and a volatile organic compound.
A highly polar organic liquid, that is used widely as a chemical solvent. Because of its ability to penetrate biological membranes, it is used as a vehicle for topical application of pharmaceuticals. It is also used to protect tissue during cryopreservation. Dimethyl sulfoxide shows a range of pharmacological activity including analgesia and anti-inflammation.
Dimethyl sulfoxide is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Dimethyl Sulfoxide has been reported in Basella alba, Manilkara zapota, and Vitis vinifera with data available.
Dimethyl Sulfoxide is a highly polar organic liquid that is used widely as a chemical solvent and a free radical scavenger. It shows a range of pharmacological activity including analgesia and anti-inflammation. Because of its ability to penetrate biological membranes, it is used as a vehicle for topical application of pharmaceuticals. It is also used to protect cells and tissue during cryopreservation and has been used to treat extravasation damage caused by anthracycline-based chemotherapy.
DIMETHYL SULFOXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1978 and has 4 approved and 9 investigational indications.
Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is a key dipolar aprotic solvent. It is less toxic than other members of this class: dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, HMPA. Dimethyl sulfoxide is the chemical compound (CH3)2SO. This colorless liquid is an important dipolar aprotic solvent. It is readily miscible in a wide range of organic solvents as well as water. It has a distinctive property of penetrating the skin very readily, allowing the handler to taste it. Some describe it as an oyster-like taste, others claim it tastes like garlic. DMSO is also employed as a rinsing agent in the electronics industry and, in its deuterated form (DMSO-d6), is a useful solvent in NMR due to its ability to dissolve a wide range of chemical compounds and its minimal interference with the sample signals. In cryobiology DMSO has been used as a cryoprotectant and is still an important constituent of cryoprotectant vitrification mixtures used to preserve organs, tissues, and cell suspensions. It is particularly important in the freezing and long-term storage of embryonic stem cells and hematopoietic stem cell, which are often frozen in a mixture of 10% DMSO and 90% fetal calf serum. As part of an autologous bone marrow transplant the DMSO is re-infused along with the patient's own hematopoietic stem cell. Dimethyl sulfoxide is a by-product of wood pulping. One of the leading suppliers of DMSO is the Gaylord company in the USA. DMSO is frequently used as solvent in a number of chemical reactions. In particular it is an excellent reaction solvent for SN2 alkylations: it is possible to alkylate indoles with very high yields using potassium hydroxide as the base and a similar reaction also occurs with phenols. DMSO can be reacted with methyl iodide to form a sulfoxonium ion which can be reacted with sodium hydride to form a sulfur ylide. The methyl groups of DMSO are somewhat acidic in character (pKa=35) due to the stabilization of the resultant anions by the sulfoxide group.
A highly polar organic liquid, that is used widely as a chemical solvent. Because of its ability to penetrate biological membranes, it is used as a vehicle for topical application of pharmaceuticals. It is also used to protect tissue during CRYOPRESERVATION. Dimethyl sulfoxide shows a range of pharmacological activity including analgesia and anti-inflammation.
See also: Dimethyl Sulfoxide; Fluocinolone Acetonide (component of).
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CS(=O)C
formula: C2H6OS
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 78.14 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 78.01393598 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 78.01393598 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 36.3
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 29
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

