Name: Dimethylamine
Text:
Dimethylamine, anhydrous appears as a colorless gas smelling of fish at low concentrations and of ammonia at higher concentrations. Shipped as a liquid under its vapor pressure. Contact with the unconfined liquid can cause frostbite by evaporative cooling and chemical type burns. The gas, which is corrosive, dissolves readily in water to form flammable corrosive solutions. The gas is heavier than air and can asphyxiate by the displacement of air. Gas is easily ignited and produces toxic oxides of nitrogen when burned. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations or short-term inhalation of low concentrations has adverse health effects. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. Used to make other chemicals and as a solvent.
Dimethylamine, aqueous solution appears as a solution of a gas in water. Odor ranging from a fishlike to ammonia-like depending on vapor concentration. Corrosive to skin and eyes. Vapors heavier than air. Toxic oxides of nitrogen produced during combustion.
Dimethylamine is a secondary aliphatic amine where both N-substituents are methyl. It has a role as a metabolite. It is a secondary aliphatic amine and a member of methylamines. It is a conjugate base of a dimethylaminium.
Dimethylamine has been reported in Mimosa pudica, Cannabis sativa, and other organisms with data available.
Dimethylamine is a uremic toxin.  Uremic toxins can be subdivided into three major groups based upon their chemical and physical characteristics: 1) small, water-soluble, non-protein-bound compounds, such as urea; 2) small, lipid-soluble and/or protein-bound compounds, such as the phenols and 3) larger so-called middle-molecules, such as beta2-microglobulin. Chronic exposure of uremic toxins can lead to a number of conditions including renal damage, chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular disease.  Dimethylamine (DMA) is an organic secondary amine. It is a colorless, liquefied and flammable gas with an ammonia and fish-like odor. Dimethylamine is abundantly present in human urine. Main sources of urinary DMA have been reported to include trimethylamine N-oxide, a common food component, and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. ADMA is excreted in the urine in part unmetabolized and in part after hydrolysis to DMA by dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH). Statistically significant increases in urinary DMA have been found in individuals after the consumption of fish and seafoods. The highest values were obtained for individuals that consumed coley, squid and whiting with cod, haddock, sardine, skate and swordfish As a pure chemical substance Dimethylamine is used as dehairing agent in tanning, in dyes, in rubber accelerators, in soaps and cleaning compounds and as an agricultural fungicide. In the body, DMA also undergoes nitrosation under weak acid conditions to give dimethlynitrosamine.

See also: Polidronium Chloride (monomer of); Acorus calamus root (part of); Polidronium (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: CNC
formula: C2H7N
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 45.08 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 45.057849228 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 45.057849228 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 12
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 2.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

