Name: Donepezil
Text:
Donepezil is a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of (R)- and (S)-donepezil. A centrally acting reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, its main therapeutic use is in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease where it is used to increase cortical acetylcholine. It has a role as an EC 3.1.1.7 (acetylcholinesterase) inhibitor, a nootropic agent and an EC 3.1.1.8 (cholinesterase) inhibitor. It contains a (R)-donepezil and a (S)-donepezil. It is a conjugate base of a donepezil (1+).
In 2016, the global burden of dementia was estimated to be 43.8 million, demonstrating a significant increase from a global prevalence of 20.2 million in 1990. Donepezil, also known as Aricept, is a piperidine derivative acetylcholinesterase inhibitor used in the management of the dementia of Alzheimer's Disease, and in some cases, is used to manage other types of dementia.   Donepezil was first approved by the FDA in 1996, and its extended-release form was approved in combination with [Memantine] in 2014 to manage moderate and severe forms of Alzheimer's dementia. A donepezil transdermal delivery system, Adlarity, was approved by the FDA in March 2022 for the treatment of Alzheimer's dementia. Though it does not alter the progression of Alzheimer's disease, donepezil is effective in managing the symptoms of its associated dementia.
Donepezil is a Cholinesterase Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of donepezil is as a Cholinesterase Inhibitor.
Donepezil is an oral acetylcholinesterase inhibitor used for therapy of Alzheimer disease. Donepezil is associated with a minimal rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy and has only rarely been implicated as a cause of clinically apparent liver injury.
Donepezil is the hydrochloride salt of a piperidine derivative with neurocognitive-enhancing activity. Donepezil reversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase, thereby blocking the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and, consequently, increasing its activity.  This agent may improve neurocognitive function in Alzheimer's disease, reduce sedation associated with opioid treatment of cancer pain, and improve neurocognitive function in patients who have received radiation therapy for primary brain tumors or brain metastases.
DONEPEZIL is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1996 and is indicated for alzheimer disease and dementia and has 33 investigational indications.
Donepezil, marketed under the trade name Aricept (Eisai), is a centrally acting reversible acetyl cholinesterase inhibitor. Its main therapeutic use is in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease where it is used to increase cortical acetylcholine. It has an oral bioavailability of 100% and easily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Because it has a half life of about 70 hours, it can be taken once a day. Initial dose is 5 mg per day, which can be increased to 10 mg per day after an adjustment period of at least 4 weeks. Donepezil is a centrally acting reversible acetyl cholinesterase inhibitor. Its main therapeutic use is in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease where it is used to increase cortical acetylcholine. It is well absorbed in the gut with an oral bioavailability of 100% and easily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Because it has a half life of about 70 hours, it can be taken once a day. Currently, there is no definitive proof that use of donepezil or other similar agents alters the course or progression of Alzheimer's disease. However, 6-12 month controlled studies have shown modest benefits in cognition and/or behavior. Pilot studies have reported that donepezil therapy may potentially have effects on markers of disease progression, such as hippocampal volume. Therefore, many neurologists, psychiatrists, and primary care physicians use donepezil in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In 2005, the UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) withdrew its recommendation for use of the drug for mild-to-moderate AD, on the basis that there is no significant improvement in functional outcome; Currently, there is no definitive proof that use of donepezil or other similar agents alters the course or progression of Alzheimer's disease. However, 6-12 month controlled studies have shown modest benefits in cognition and/or behavior. Pilot studies have reported that donepezil therapy may potentially have effects on markers of disease progression, such as hippocampal volume. Therefore, many neurologists, psychiatrists, and primary care physicians use donepezil in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In 2005, the UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) withdrew its recommendation for use of the drug for mild-to-moderate AD, on the basis that there is no significant improvement in functional outcome; of quality of life or of behavioral symptoms. However, NICE revised its guidelines to suggest that donepezil be used in moderate stage patients for whom the evidence is strongest. While the drug is currently indicated for mild to moderate Alzheimer's, there is also evidence from 2 trials that it may be effective for moderate to severe disease. An example of this is a Karolinska Institute paper published in The Lancet in early 2006, which states that donepezil improves cognitive function even in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease symptoms. of quality of life or of behavioral symptoms. However, NICE revised its guidelines to suggest that donepezil be used in moderate stage patients for whom the evidence is strongest. While the drug is currently indicated for mild to moderate Alzheimer's, there is also evidence from 2 trials that it may be effective for moderate to severe disease. An example of this is a Karolinska Institute paper published in The Lancet in early 2006, which states that donepezil improves cognitive function even in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease symptoms. Donepezil is postulated to exert its therapeutic effect by enhancing cholinergic function. This is accomplished by increasing the concentration of acetylcholine through reversible inhibition of its hydrolysis by acetylcholinesterase. If this proposed mechanism of action is correct, donepezil's effect may lessen as the disease process advances and fewer cholinergic neurons remain functionally intact. Donepezil has been tested in other cognitive disorders including Lewy body dementia and Vascular dementia, but it is not currently approved for these indications. Donepezil has also been studied in patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment, schizophrenia, attention deficit disorder, post-coronary bypass cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment associated with multiple sclerosis, and Down syndrome.
An indan and piperidine derivative that acts as a selective and reversible inhibitor of ACETYLCHOLINESTERASE. Donepezil is highly selective for the central nervous system and is used in the management of mild to moderate DEMENTIA in ALZHEIMER DISEASE.
See also: Donepezil Hydrochloride (has salt form); Donepezil Hydrochloride Monohydrate (is active moiety of); Donepezil Oxalate (is active moiety of).
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Irritant
smiles: COC1=C(C=C2C(=C1)CC(C2=O)CC3CCN(CC3)CC4=CC=CC=C4)OC
formula: C24H29NO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 379.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 4.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 6
Exact Mass: 379.21474379 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 379.21474379 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 38.8
Heavy Atom Count: 28
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 510
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

