Name: Dronabinol
Text:
delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC) can cause developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
1-trans-delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol appears as brown amorphous semi-solid, viscous oil or chunky golden yellow solid. (NTP, 1992)
Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol is a diterpenoid that is 6a,7,8,10a-tetrahydro-6H-benzo[c]chromene substituted at position 1 by a hydroxy group, positions 6, 6 and 9 by methyl groups and at position 3 by a pentyl group. The principal psychoactive constituent of the cannabis plant, it is used for treatment of anorexia associated with AIDS as well as nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy. It has a role as a metabolite, a non-narcotic analgesic, a hallucinogen, a cannabinoid receptor agonist and an epitope. It is a diterpenoid, a benzochromene, a polyketide and a phytocannabinoid.
Dronabinol is a DEA Schedule II controlled substance. Substances in the DEA Schedule II have a high potential for abuse which may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence. It is a Hallucinogenic substances substance.
Dronabinol (marketed as Marinol) is a synthetic form of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ⁹-THC), the primary psychoactive component of cannabis (marijuana). THC demonstrates its effects through weak partial agonist activity at Cannabinoid-1 (CB1R) and Cannabinoid-2 (CB2R) receptors, which results in the well-known effects of smoking cannabis such as increased appetite, reduced pain, and changes in emotional and cognitive processes. Due to its evidence as an appetite stimulant and an anti-nauseant, Dronabinol is approved for use in anorexia associated with weight loss in patients with AIDS and for the treatment of nausea and vomiting associated with cancer chemotherapy in patients who have failed to respond adequately to conventional antiemetic treatments.  Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are the two most abundant cannabinoids found naturally in the resin of the marijuana plant, both of which are pharmacologically active due to their interaction with cannabinoid receptors that are found throughout the body. While both CBD and THC are used for medicinal purposes, they have different receptor activity, function, and physiological effects. If not provided in their activated form (such as through synthetic forms like Dronabinol or [DB00486]), THC and CBD are obtained through conversion from their precursors, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid-A (THCA-A) and cannabidiolic acid (CBDA), through decarboxylation reactions. This can be achieved through heating, smoking, vaporization, or baking of dried unfertilized female cannabis flowers.  From a pharmacological perspective, Cannabis' diverse receptor profile explains its potential application for such a wide variety of medical conditions. Cannabis contains more than 400 different chemical compounds, of which 61 are considered cannabinoids, a class of compounds that act upon endogenous cannabinoid receptors of the body. The endocannabinoid system is widely distributed throughout the central and peripheral nervous system (via the Cannabinoid Receptors CB1 and CB2) and plays a role in many physiological processes such as inflammation, cardiovascular function, learning, pain, memory, stress and emotional regulation, and the sleep/wake cycle among many others. CB1 receptors are found in both the central and peripheral nervous system, and are most abundant in the hippocampus and amygdala, which are the areas of the brain responsible for short-term memory storage and emotional regulation. CB2 receptors are mainly located in the peripheral nervous system and can be found on lymphoid tissue where they are involved in regulation of immune function.
Dronabinol is a Cannabinoid.
Dronabinol is an orally available cannabinoid agonist that is used to treat nausea and vomiting and to stimulate appetite, particularly in patients with wasting disease or cachexia. Dronabinol is associated with a minimal rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy and has not been linked to cases of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice.
Dronabinol has been reported in Cannabis sativa with data available.
Dronabinol is an isomer of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) that is the main and most active isomer found in the Cannabis sativa L. plant, with potential anti-emetic, analgesic and appetite stimulating activities. Upon administration, dronabinol, also called delta-9-THC, targets and binds to cannabinoid receptors (CBRs) located in the central nervous system (CNS). Dronabinol acts directly on the appetite and vomiting control centers in the brain to stimulate appetite and prevent emesis. In addition, this agent induces analgesia. Urine levels may be used as a marker to determine the exposure to certain preparations containing parts of the cannabis plant, such as marijuana.
DRONABINOL is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1985 and has 5 approved and 31 investigational indications.
A psychoactive compound extracted from the resin of Cannabis sativa (marihuana, hashish). The isomer delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is considered the most active form, producing characteristic mood and perceptual changes associated with this compound.
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CCCCCC1=CC(=C2[C@@H]3C=C(CC[C@H]3C(OC2=C1)(C)C)C)O
formula: C21H30O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 314.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 4
Exact Mass: 314.224580195 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 314.224580195 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 29.5
Heavy Atom Count: 23
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 439
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 2
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

