Name: Erdafitinib
Text:
In early April of 2019, the US FDA approved Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies' brand name Balversa (erdafitinib) as the first-ever fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) kinase inhibitor indicated for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma, with susceptible FGFR3 or FGFR2 genetic alterations, that has progressed during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, including within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant platinum-containing chemotherapy. At the same time, the FDA also approved the therascreen FGFR RGQ RT-PCR Kit (Qiagen) for utilization as a companion diagnostic with erdafitinib for selecting patients for the indicated therapy.  Erdafitinib is the first personalized treatment targeting susceptible FGFR genetic alterations for patients with metastatic bladder cancer, which demonstrates the development of more personalized and precise medicines tailoring to a patient's specific genetic mutation. Considering urothelial cancer is statistically the fourth most common kind of cancer in the world, the introduction of erdafitinib offers a much-needed new option in the ever-expanding therapeutic tool kit to treat such a prevalent medical condition.
Erdafitinib is a Kinase Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of erdafitinib is as a Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitor, and Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitor, and Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inducer, and P-Glycoprotein Inhibitor, and Organic Cation Transporter 2 Inhibitor.
Erdafitinib is an oral small molecule inhibitor of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors 1 to 4 that is used in the therapy of locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic urothelial carcinoma. Erdafitinib has been associated with a high rate of serum enzyme elevations during therapy, but has not been linked to cases of clinically apparent acute liver injury.
Erdafitinib is an orally bioavailable, pan fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitor with potential antineoplastic activity. Upon oral administration, erdafitinib binds to and inhibits FGFR, which may result in the inhibition of FGFR-related signal transduction pathways and thus the inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and tumor cell death in FGFR-overexpressing tumor cells. FGFR, upregulated in many tumor cell types, is a receptor tyrosine kinase essential to tumor cell proliferation, differentiation and survival.
ERDAFITINIB is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2019 and has 5 approved and 11 investigational indications.
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC(C)NCCN(C1=CC2=NC(=CN=C2C=C1)C3=CN(N=C3)C)C4=CC(=CC(=C4)OC)OC
formula: C25H30N6O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 446.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 9
Exact Mass: 446.24302422 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 446.24302422 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 77.3
Heavy Atom Count: 33
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 583
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

