Name: Estrone
Text:
Estrone can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Estrone is a 17-oxo steroid that is estra-1,3,5(10)-triene substituted by an hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17. It has a role as an estrogen, a bone density conservation agent, an antineoplastic agent, a human metabolite and a mouse metabolite. It is a 3-hydroxy steroid, a phenolic steroid, a member of phenols and a 17-oxo steroid. It derives from a hydride of an estrane.
Estrone, one of the major mammalian estrogens, is an aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone. It is produced in vivo from androstenedione or from testosterone via estradiol. It is produced primarily in the ovaries, placenta, and in peripheral tissues (especially adipose tissue) through conversion of adrostenedione. Estrone may be further metabolized to 16-alpha-hydroxyestrone, which may be reduced to estriol by estradiol dehydrogenase.
Estrone has been reported in Perilla frutescens, Punica granatum, and other organisms with data available.
Therapeutic Estrone is the synthetic form of a naturally occurring estrogen estrone. Estrone diffuses through the cell membrane and binds to and subsequently activates the nuclear estrogen receptor found in the reproductive tract, breast, pituitary, hypothalamus, liver, and bone. The activated hormone-receptor complex gets translocated to the nucleus where it binds to the estrogen response element on the DNA and promotes the transcription of target genes involved in the functioning of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics. Estrone increases the hepatic synthesis of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), thyroid-binding globulin (TBG), and other serum proteins, as well as suppresses the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) from the anterior pituitary.
Estrone is one of three naturally occurring estrogens synthesized from androstenedione in the adrenal glands and peripheral tissues by aromatization and is the primary estrogen produced after menopause.
ESTRONE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1979 and has 2 investigational indications.
Estrone, one of the major mammalian estrogens, is an aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone. It is produced in vivo from androstenedione or from testosterone via estradiol. It is produced primarily in the ovaries, placenta, and in peripheral tissues (especially adipose tissue) through conversion of adrostenedione. Estrone may be further metabolized to 16-alpha-hydroxyestrone, which may be reduced to estriol by estradiol dehydrogenase.
An aromatized C18 steroid with a 3-hydroxyl group and a 17-ketone, a major mammalian estrogen. It is converted from ANDROSTENEDIONE directly, or from TESTOSTERONE via ESTRADIOL. In humans, it is produced primarily by the cyclic ovaries, PLACENTA, and the ADIPOSE TISSUE of men and postmenopausal women.
See also: Estropipate (is active moiety of); Estrone Sodium Sulfate (is active moiety of); Estrone; progesterone (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: C[C@]12CC[C@H]3[C@H]([C@@H]1CCC2=O)CCC4=C3C=CC(=C4)O
formula: C18H22O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 270.4 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 270.161979940 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 270.161979940 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 37.3
Heavy Atom Count: 20
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 418
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 4
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

