Name: Ethylene Oxide
Text:
Ethylene oxide is a flammable gas with a somewhat sweet odor. It dissolves easily in water. Ethylene oxide is a man-made chemical that is used primarily to make ethylene glycol (a chemical used to make antifreeze and polyester). A small amount (less than 1%) is used to control insects in some stored agricultural products and a very small amount is used in hospitals to sterilize medical equipment and supplies.
Ethylene Oxide can cause cancer, developmental toxicity, female reproductive toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Ethylene oxide appears as a clear colorless gas with an ethereal odor with a flash point below 0 °F. Liquid less dense than water. Vapors heavier than air.  May polymerize exothermically if heated or contaminated. If the polymerization takes place inside a container, the container may rupture violently.  Vapors very toxic. Vapors irritate the eyes, skin, and respiratory system. Prolonged skin contact may result in delayed burns.   Used to make other chemicals, as a fumigant and industrial sterilant.
Oxirane is a saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three-membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom. It has a role as a mouse metabolite, an allergen and a mutagen. It is a saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent, an oxacycle and a gas molecular entity.
The major use of ethylene oxide is as a chemical intermediate in the manufacture of ethylene glycol. Ethylene oxide is also used as a sterilizing agent for medical equipment and a fumigating agent for spices. The acute (short-term) effects of ethylene oxide in humans consist mainly of central nervous system depression and irritation of the eyes and mucous membranes. Chronic (long-term) exposure to ethylene oxide in humans can cause irritation of the eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs, and damage to the brain and nervous system. There also is some evidence linking ethylene oxide exposure to reproductive effects. EPA has concluded that ethylene oxide is carcinogenic to humans by the inhalation route of exposure. Evidence in humans indicates that exposure to ethylene oxide increases the risk of lymphoid cancer and, for females, breast cancer.
Ethylene Oxide has been reported in Terminalia chebula with data available.
Ethylene Oxide is colorless, odorless, flammable, toxic gaseous cyclic ether with a sweet ether-like smell. Ethylene oxide is used especially in the synthesis of ethylene glycol and as a sterilizing agent for medical supplies and foods, as a fumigant and as an insecticide. Exposure to this substance is highly irritating to the eyes, skin and respiratory tract, induces nausea and vomiting and causes central nervous system depression. Ethylene oxide is mutagenic in humans and chronic exposure is associated with an increased risk of leukemia, stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. (NCI05)
Ethylene oxide is also called oxirane. It is a cyclic ether that is a colorless flammable gas at room temperature, with a faintly sweet odor. It is the simplest epoxide known. Because of its special molecular structure, ethylene oxide easily participates in addition reactions; e.g., opening its ring and thus easily polymerizing. Ethylene oxide is a vital industrial chemical with diverse applications, including the manufacture of polysorbate 20 and polyethylene glycol. Ethylene oxide itself is a very hazardous substance: at room temperature it is a flammable, carcinogenic, mutagenic and irritating. It is also an anaesthetic gas with a misleadingly pleasant aroma. Although too dangerous for direct household use and generally unfamiliar to consumers, ethylene oxide is used industrially for making many consumer products as well as non-consumer chemicals and intermediates. Ethylene oxide is important or critical to the production of detergents, thickeners, solvents, plastics, and various organic chemicals such as ethylene glycol, ethanolamines, simple and complex glycols, polyglycol ethers and other compounds. As a poison gas that leaves no residue on items it contacts, pure ethylene oxide is a disinfectant that is widely used in hospitals and the medical equipment industry to replace steam in the sterilization of heat-sensitive tools and equipment, such as disposable plastic syringes. A very small amount (less than 1%) is used to control insects on stored agricultural products such as nuts and spices.
A colorless and flammable gas at room temperature and pressure. Ethylene oxide is a bactericidal, fungicidal, and sporicidal disinfectant. It is effective against most micro-organisms, including viruses. It is used as a fumigant for foodstuffs and textiles and as an agent for the gaseous sterilization of heat-labile pharmaceutical and surgical materials. (From Reynolds, Martindale The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p794)
See also: Benzonatate (monomer of); Polidocanol (monomer of); Laureth-5 (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C1CO1
formula: C2H4O
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 44.05 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 44.026214747 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 44.026214747 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 12.5
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 10.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

