Name: Ethyl Chloride
Text:
Chloroethane is a colorless gas at room temperature and pressure. It has a characteristically sharp smell. It is a liquid when stored in pressurized containers; however, the liquid evaporates quickly when exposed to room air. Chloroethane catches fire easily. It was used in leaded gasoline, but strict new government regulations have reduced that use dramatically. It is used in the production of cellulose, dyes, medicinal drugs, and other commercial products, and as a solvent and refrigerant. It is also used to numb the skin before medical procedures such as ear piercing and skin biopsies and as a treatment in sports injuries.
Chloroethane (Ethyl Chloride) can cause cancer according to The National Toxicology Program.
Ethyl chloride appears as a clear colorless gas with a pungent odor. Flash point -58 °F. Boiling point 54 °F. Less dense than water and insoluble in water. Vapors are heavier than air. Under prolonged exposure to fire or heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket.
Chloroethane is the simplest and least toxic member of the class of chloroethanes, that is ethane in which a single hydrogen is substituted by a chlorine. A colourless gas at room temperature and pressure (boiling point 12℃), it is used as a mild topical anaesthetic to numb the skin prior to ear piercing, skin biopsies, etc., and is also used in the treatment of sports injuries. It was formerly used in the production of tetraethyllead. It has a role as a local anaesthetic, an antipruritic drug and an inhalation anaesthetic.
Ethyl chloride, or chloroethane, has a chemical formula C2H5Cl. It was commonly used in the production of tetraethyllead (TEL), which is an additive for gasoline. It was also used in other commerical applications as a chemical reagent. It is still used in the treatment of cellulose to make ethylcellulose for commercial products. Ethyl chloride is used as a diagnostic tool to detect a dead tooth with nonviable pulp.
Exposure to ethyl chloride may occur from the use of consumer products containing it. The acute (short- term) effects of ethyl chloride from inhalation exposure in humans consists of temporary feelings of drunkenness, and higher levels cause lack of muscle coordination and unconsciousness. The chronic (long-term) health effects resulting from exposure to air containing low levels of ethyl chloride in humans is not known. Some animal studies indicate effects on the lungs, liver, kidneys, and heart due to exposure to ethyl chloride via inhalation. No studies were located regarding carcinogenic effects following ethyl chloride inhalation exposure in humans. A study by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) indicated that inhaled ethyl chloride is carcinogenic in female mice and may be carcinogenic in rats. EPA has not classified ethyl chloride for carcinogenicity.
ETHYL CHLORIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV and has 1 investigational indication.
Chloroethane, also called ethyl chloride, is a colorless gas at room temperature and pressure, with a characteristically sharp odor. People can smell chloroethane in the air at levels above 4 parts chloroethane in a million parts of air by volume (ppm). It can be smelled in water at levels above 0.02 parts chloroethane in a million parts of water (ppm). In pressurized containers, chloroethane exists as a liquid. However, the liquid evaporates quickly when exposed to air. It catches fire easily and is very dangerous when exposed to heat or flame. Chloroethane does not occur naturally in the environment. It is present in the environment as a result of human activity. In the past, the largest single use for chloroethane was for the production of tetraethyl lead, which is a gasoline additive. However, production of chloroethane has decreased dramatically as a result of stricter government regulations controlling lead in gasoline. Other applications include use in the production of ethyl cellulose, dyes, medicinal drugs, and other commercial chemicals, and use as a solvent and refrigerant. It is used to numb skin prior to medical procedures such as ear piercing and skin biopsies, and it is used in the treatment of sports injuries. (L935)
A gas that condenses under slight pressure. Because of its low boiling point ethyl chloride sprayed on skin produces an intense cold by evaporation. Cold blocks nerve conduction. Ethyl chloride has been used in surgery but is primarily used to relieve local pain in sports medicine.
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas and Health Hazard
smiles: CCCl
formula: C2H5Cl
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 64.51 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 64.0079779 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 64.0079779 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 2.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

