Name: Ethylamine
Text:
Ethylamine appears as a colorless liquid or a gas (boiling point 62 °F) with an odor of ammonia. Flash point less than 0 °F. Density of liquid 5.7 lb / gal. Corrosive to the skin and eyes. Vapors are heavier than air. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion. Exposure of the closed container to intense heat may cause it to rupture violently and rocket.
Ethylamine, aqueous solution, with not less than 50% but not more than 70% ethylamine appears as an aqueous solution of a gas. Odor ranges from fishlike to ammonia-like as the vapor concentration increases. Corrosive to skin and eyes. Less dense than water. Vapors are heavier than air. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion.
Ethylamine is a two-carbon primary aliphatic amine. It has a role as a human metabolite. It is a conjugate base of an ethylaminium.
Ethylamine has been reported in Cannabis sativa, Vitis vinifera, and other organisms with data available.
Ethylamine is a uremic toxin.  Uremic toxins can be subdivided into three major groups based upon their chemical and physical characteristics: 1) small, water-soluble, non-protein-bound compounds, such as urea; 2) small, lipid-soluble and/or protein-bound compounds, such as the phenols and 3) larger so-called middle-molecules, such as beta2-microglobulin. Chronic exposure of uremic toxins can lead to a number of conditions including renal damage, chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. 
Ethylamine is a simple aliphatic amine. It is component of normal human urine it has been suggested that this short chain aliphatic chain play significant role in the central nervous system disturbances observe during hepatic and renal disease especially when the blood brain barrier is compromised. (A3299).
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas and Irritant
smiles: CCN
formula: C2H7N
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 45.08 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 45.057849228 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 45.057849228 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 26
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 2.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

