Name: Ethyl acrylate
Text:
Ethyl Acrylate can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Ethyl acrylate, stabilized appears as a clear colorless liquid with an acrid odor. Flash point 60 °F. May polymerize exothermically if heated or contaminated. If the polymerization takes place inside a container, the container may rupture violently. Auto ignition temperature 721 °F (383 °C) (NTP). Less dense than water. Vapors heavier than air. Used to make paints and plastics.
Ethyl acrylate is an enoate ester.
Exposure to ethyl acrylate is primarily occupational. Acute (short-term) exposure of workers to ethyl acrylate vapors has been reported to cause drowsiness, lethargy, headache, nausea, convulsions, and respiratory and gastrointestinal irritation. Noncancerous lesions and inflammation of the nasal mucosa and depressed body weight gain have been observed in rats and mice exposed by inhalation for a chronic (long-term) duration. Human studies on occupational exposure to ethyl acrylate/methyl methacrylate have suggested a relationship between exposure to the chemical(s) and colorectal cancer, but the evidence is conflicting and inconclusive. In a study by the National Toxicology Program (NTP), increased incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the forestomach were observed in rats and mice exposed via gavage (experimentally placing the chemical in the stomach). However, the NTP recently determined that these data were not relevant to human carcinogenicity and removed ethyl acrylate from its list of carcinogens. EPA has classified ethyl acrylate as a Group B2, probable human carcinogen, but has not developed a potency estimate to quantify risk by inhalation.
Ethyl acrylate is found in pineapple. Ethyl acrylate is a flavouring ingredient Although there are some reports claiming that ethyl acrylate is a carcinogen, major respected bodies regard the evidence of human carcinogenicity as weak and/or inconsistent. The International Agency for Research on Cancer stated, Overall evaluation, Ethyl acrylate is possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B). The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) states, Human studies on occupational exposure to ethyl acrylate&hellip; have suggested a relationship between exposure to the chemical(s) and colorectal cancer, but the evidence is conflicting and inconclusive. In a study by the National Toxicology Program (NTP), increased incidences of squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas of the forestomach were observed in rats and mice exposed via gavage (experimentally placing the chemical in the stomach). However, the NTP recently determined that these data were not relevant to human carcinogenicity and removed ethyl acrylate from its list of carcinogens. (Occupational exposure generally involves exposure that occurs regularly, over an extended period of time). Ethyl acrylate is an organic compound primarily used in the preparation of various polymers. It is a clear liquid with an acrid penetrating odor. The human nose is capable of detecting this odor at a thousand times lower concentration then is considered harmful if continuously exposed for some period of time.
See also: Acrylates Crosspolymer-4 (monomer of); Ammonio methacrylate copolymer type A (monomer of); Ammonio methacrylate copolymer type B (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Acute Toxic
smiles: CCOC(=O)C=C
formula: C5H8O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 100.12 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 100.052429494 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 100.052429494 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 26.3
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 76.1
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

