Name: Ferrous Sulfate
Text:
Ferrous sulfate appears as a greenish or yellow-brown crystalline solid. Density 15.0 lb /gal. Melts at 64 °C and loses the seven waters of hydration at 90 °C. The primary hazard is the threat to the environment. Immediate steps should be taken to limit its spread to the environment. Used for water or sewage treatment, as a fertilizer ingredient.
Iron(2+) sulfate (anhydrous) is a compound of iron and sulfate in which the ratio of iron(2+) to sulfate ions is 1:1. Various hydrates occur naturally - most commonly the heptahydrate, which loses water to form the tetrahydrate at 57℃ and the monohydrate at 65℃. It has a role as a reducing agent. It is a metal sulfate and an iron molecular entity. It contains an iron(2+).
Iron deficiency anemia is a large public health concern worldwide, especially in young children, infants, and women of childbearing age. This type of anemia occurs when iron intake, iron stores, and iron loss do not adequately support the formation of erythrocytes, also known as red blood cells.   Ferrous sulfate is a synthetic agent used in the treatment of iron deficiency. It is the gold standard of oral iron therapy in the UK and many other countries.
Ferrous Sulfate is a sulfate salt of mineral iron formulated for oral administration and used as a dietary supplement, ferrous sulfate is absorbed in the stomach and small intestine and combines with apoferritin to form ferritin, which is stored in the liver, spleen, red bone marrow, and intestinal mucosa. Important in transport of oxygen by hemoglobin to the tissues, iron is also found in myoglobin, transferrin, and ferritin, and is a component of many enzymes such as catalase, peroxidase, and cytochromes.
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: [O-]S(=O)(=O)[O-].[Fe+2]
formula: FeO4S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 151.91 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 151.886665 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 151.886665 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 88.6
Heavy Atom Count: 6
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 62.2
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

