Name: Fluorine
Text:
Fluorides, hydrogen fluoride, and fluorine are chemically related. Fluorine is a naturally-occurring, pale yellow-green gas with a sharp odor. It combines with metals to make fluorides such as sodium fluoride and calcium fluoride, both white solids. Sodium fluoride dissolves easily in water, but calcium fluoride does not. Fluorine also combines with hydrogen to make hydrogen fluoride, a colorless gas. Hydrogen fluoride dissolves in water to form hydrofluoric acid. Fluorine and hydrogen fluoride are used to make certain chemical compounds. Hydrofluoric acid is used for etching glass. Other fluoride compounds are used in making steel, chemicals, ceramics, lubricants, dyes, plastics, and pesticides. Fluorides are often added to drinking water supplies and to a variety of dental products, including toothpaste and mouth rinses, to prevent dental cavities. UPDATE: In 2015, thePHS replacedthe 1962 Drinking Water Standards from 0.7""1.2 mg/L to an optimal fluoride concentration of 0.7 mg/L. This is to provide optimal concentration of fluoride in drinking water that provides the best balance of protection from dental caries while limiting the risk of dental fluorosis.
Fluorine is a pale yellow gas with a pungent odor. It is commonly shipped as a cryogenic liquid. It is toxic by inhalation and skin absorption. Contact with skin in lower than lethal concentrations causes chemical burns. It reacts with water to form hydrofluoric acid and oxygen. It is corrosive to most common materials. It reacts with most combustible materials to the point that ignition occurs. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may violently rupture and rocket.
Difluorine is a diatomic fluorine and a gas molecular entity. It has a role as a NMR chemical shift reference compound.
Fluorine has been reported in Salvadora persica with data available.
Fluorine is an element with atomic symbol F, atomic number 9, and atomic weight 19.0.
Fluorine is a mineral with formula of F or.
A nonmetallic, diatomic gas that is a trace element and member of the halogen family. It is used in dentistry as fluoride (FLUORIDES) to prevent dental caries.
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Acute Toxic
smiles: FF
formula: F2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 37.99680632 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 37.99680632 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 37.99680632 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

