Name: Formic Acid
Text:
Formic acid appears as a colorless liquid with a pungent odor. Flash point 156 °F. Density 10.2 lb / gal. Corrosive to metals and tissue.
Formic acid is the simplest carboxylic acid, containing a single carbon. Occurs naturally in various sources including the venom of bee and ant stings, and is a useful organic synthetic reagent. Principally used as a preservative and antibacterial agent in livestock feed. Induces severe metabolic acidosis and ocular injury in human subjects. It has a role as an antibacterial agent, a protic solvent, a metabolite, a solvent and an astringent. It is a conjugate acid of a formate.
Formic acid (systematically called methanoic acid) is the simplest carboxylic acid. It is an important intermediate in chemical synthesis and occurs naturally, most famously in the venom of bee and ant stings. It is commonly used as a preservative and antibacterial agent in livestock feed.
Formic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Formic Acid has been reported in Humulus lupulus, Oecophylla smaragdina, and other organisms with data available.
Formic Acid is a reagent comprised of the organic chemical formic acid that cleaves proteins into peptides at the C- or N-terminal side of an aspartate residue.
See also: Sodium Formate (is active moiety of); Artemisia abrotanum Flowering Top; Formic Acid (component of); Formic acid; lactic acid (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive and Acute Toxic
smiles: C(=O)O
formula: CH2O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 46.025 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 46.005479302 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 46.005479302 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 37.3
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 10.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

