Name: Fostemsavir
Text:
Fostemsavir (brand name: Rukobia) is a prescription medicine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HIV infection in treatment-experienced adults who meet certain requirements, as determined by a health care provider. Fostemsavir is always used in combination with other HIV medicines.
Fostemsavir is the phosphonooxymethyl prodrug of temsavir, a novel HIV-1 attachment inhibitor. It binds to and inhibits the activity of gp120, a subunit within the HIV-1 gp160 envelope glycoprotein that facilitates the attachment of HIV-1 to host cell CD4 receptors - in doing so, temsavir prevents the first step in the HIV-1 viral lifecycle. The discovery of gp120 as a potential target of interest in the treatment of HIV-1 infection is relatively recent, and was born out of a desire to find alternative target proteins (i.e. mechanistically orthogonal therapies) for the treatment of HIV-1 patients with resistant infections. Fostemavir is the first attachment inhibitor to receive FDA approval, granted in July 2020 for use in combination with other antiretrovirals in highly treatment-experienced patients with multidrug-resistant HIV-1 infection whom are failing their current therapy. Targeting gp120 subunits is a new and novel therapeutic approach to HIV-1 infection, and the addition of attachment inhibitors, like temsavir, to the armament of therapies targeted against HIV-1 fills a necessary niche for therapeutic options in patients left with few, if any, viable treatments.
Fostemsavir is a unique antiretroviral agent that binds to an envelope antigen of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) inhibiting its attachment to cell surface receptors of CD4+ lymphocytes. It is used to treat patients with multidrug resistant infection and inadequate viral suppression despite optimized background therapy. Fostemsavir has been linked to a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy but has not been linked convincingly to episodes of clinically apparent liver injury.
FOSTEMSAVIR is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2020 and has 4 approved indications.
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=NN(C=N1)C2=NC=C(C3=C2N(C=C3C(=O)C(=O)N4CCN(CC4)C(=O)C5=CC=CC=C5)COP(=O)(O)O)OC
formula: C25H26N7O8P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 583.5 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 11
Rotatable Bond Count: 8
Exact Mass: 583.15804781 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 583.15804781 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 182
Heavy Atom Count: 41
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 1020
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

