Name: Glucosides
Text:
Beta-D-glucose is d-Glucopyranose with beta configuration at the anomeric centre. It has a role as an epitope and a mouse metabolite. It is an enantiomer of a beta-L-glucose.
A primary source of energy for living organisms. It is naturally occurring and is found in fruits and other parts of plants in its free state. It is used therapeutically in fluid and nutrient replacement.
Glucose oxidase has been investigated for the treatment of Upper Respiratory Tract Infections.
b-D-Glucose is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
(2R,3R,4S,5S,6R)-6-(hydroxymethyl)oxane-2,3,4,5-tetrol has been reported in Humulus lupulus, Maclura pomifera, and other organisms with data available.
Beta-D-Glucopyranose is the beta isoform of D-glucopyranose, a synthetic simple monosaccharide as an energy source. D-glucopyranose is oxidized in various tissues either under aerobic or anaerobic conditions through glycolysis, and the oxidation reaction produces carbon dioxide, water and ATP.
Zymosan is an insoluble beta-1,3-glucan polysaccharide derived from, and structural component of, yeast cell walls, with potential immunostimulating activity. Upon administration, zymosan targets, binds to and activates certain Toll-like receptors, primarily TLR type 2 (TLR-2), on leukocytes and dectin-1 on macrophages. Activation of TLR2 and dectin-1 stimulates the release of pro-inflammatory mediators, and enhances innate immune responses.
Beta-D-Glucose is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
See also: D-Glucose (annotation moved to); Curdlan (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: C([C@@H]1[C@H]([C@@H]([C@H]([C@@H](O1)O)O)O)O)O
formula: C6H12O6
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 180.16 g/mol
XLogP3: -2.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 5
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 6
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 180.06338810 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 180.06338810 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 110
Heavy Atom Count: 12
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 151
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 5
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

