Name: Glutaral
Text:
Glutaraldehyde is a colorless, oily liquid with a sharp, pungent odor. Glutaraldehyde is used for industrial, laboratory, agricultural, medical, and some household purposes, primarily for disinfecting and sterilization of surfaces and equipment. For example, it is used in oil and gas recovery operations and pipelines, waste water treatment, x-ray processing, embalming fluid, leather tanning, paper industry, in fogging and cleaning of poultry houses, and as a chemical intermediate in the production of various materials. It may be used in select goods, such as paint and laundry detergent.
Glutaraldehyde solution is a light yellow liquid. Mixes with water. (USCG, 1999)
Glutaraldehyde is a dialdehyde comprised of pentane with aldehyde functions at C-1 and C-5. It has a role as a cross-linking reagent, a disinfectant and a fixative.
One of the protein CROSS-LINKING REAGENTS that is used as a disinfectant for sterilization of heat-sensitive equipment and as a laboratory reagent, especially as a fixative.
Glutaral is a water-soluble oily liquid, C5H8O2, containing two aldehyde groups, used as a disinfectant and as a fixative for biological tissues.
GLUTARAL is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of II.
Glutaral is used as an antimicrobial agent in sugar mills and as a fixing agent in the immobilisation of glucose isomerase enzyme preparations for use in the manufacture of high fructose corn syrup A polymerized isomer of glutaraldehyde known as polycycloglutaracetal is a fertilizer for aquatic plants. It is claimed that it provides a bioavailable source of carbon for higher plants that is not available to algae. Though not marketed as such due to federal regulations, the biocidal effect of glutaraldehyde kills most algae at concentrations of 0.5 - 5.0 ppm. These levels are not harmful to most aquatic fauna and flora. Adverse reactions have been observed by some aquarists at these concentrations in some aquatic mosses, liverworts, and vascular plants. Glutaraldehyde is a colorless liquid with a pungent odor used to disinfect medical and dental equipment. It is also used for industrial water treatment and as a chemical preservative. Glutaraldehyde is an oily liquid at room temperature (density 1.06 g/mL), and miscible with water, alcohol, and benzene. It is used as a tissue fixative in electron microscopy. It is employed as an embalming fluid, is a component of leather tanning solutions, and occurs as an intermediate in the production of certain industrial chemicals. Glutaraldehyde is frequently used in biochemistry applications as an amine-reactive homobifunctional crosslinker. The oligomeric state of proteins can be examined through this application. However, it is toxic, causing severe eye, nose, throat and lung irritation, along with headaches, drowsiness and dizziness. It is a main source of occupational asthma among health care providers. Glutaral has been shown to exhibit antibiotic function (A7907). Glutaral belongs to the family of Aldehydes. These are organic compounds containing the aldehyde functional group.
One of the protein CROSS-LINKING REAGENTS that is used as a disinfectant for sterilization of heat-sensitive equipment and as a laboratory reagent, especially as a fixative.
See also: Glutaral; Methylene Blue (component of); GLUTARAL; Malachite Green (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: C(CC=O)CC=O
formula: C5H8O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 100.12 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 4
Exact Mass: 100.052429494 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 100.052429494 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 34.1
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 51.1
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

