Name: Glycolic Acid
Text:
Glycolic acid is a 2-hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid where the methyl group has been hydroxylated. It has a role as a metabolite and a keratolytic drug. It is a 2-hydroxy monocarboxylic acid and a primary alcohol. It is functionally related to an acetic acid. It is a conjugate acid of a glycolate.
Glycolic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Glycolate is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Glycolic acid has been reported in Populus tremula, Psychotria punctata, and other organisms with data available.
GLYCOLIC ACID is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of II (across all indications) and has 3 investigational indications.
Glycolic acid (or hydroxyacetic acid) is the smallest alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA). This colorless, odorless, and hygroscopic crystalline solid is highly soluble in water. Due to its excellent capability to penetrate skin, glycolic acid finds applications in skin care products, most often as a chemical peel. It may reduce wrinkles, acne scarring, hyperpigmentation and improve many other skin conditions, including actinic keratosis, hyperkeratosis, and seborrheic keratosis. Once applied, glycolic acid reacts with the upper layer of the epidermis, weakening the binding properties of the lipids that hold the dead skin cells together. This allows the outer skin to dissolve revealing the underlying skin. (L1909)
See also: Ammonium Glycolate (is active moiety of); Glycolic acid; salicylic acid (component of); Glycerin; glycolic acid (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: C(C(=O)O)O
formula: C2H4O3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 76.05 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 76.016043985 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 76.016043985 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 57.5
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 40.2
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

