Name: Guanidine
Text:
Guanidine is an aminocarboxamidine, the parent compound of the guanidines. It is a one-carbon compound, a member of guanidines and a carboxamidine. It is a conjugate base of a guanidinium.
A strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed) It is also used in the treatment of myasthenia and as a fluorescent probe in HPLC.
Guanidine is an Acetylcholine Releasing Agent. The physiologic effect of guanidine is by means of Increased Acetylcholine Activity.
Guanidine has been reported in Liparis formosana, Citrus reticulata, and other organisms with data available.
GUANIDINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1939 and has 3 approved and 2 investigational indications.
Guaniidine is a uremic toxin.  Uremic toxins can be subdivided into three major groups based upon their chemical and physical characteristics: 1) small, water-soluble, non-protein-bound compounds, such as urea; 2) small, lipid-soluble and/or protein-bound compounds, such as the phenols and 3) larger so-called middle-molecules, such as beta2-microglobulin. Chronic exposure of uremic toxins can lead to a number of conditions including renal damage, chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. 
Guanidine is a polyamine that can function as a strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. With a pKa of 12.5, guanidine is protonated, with a charge of +1 in physiological conditions. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed). Guanidine is a crystalline compound of strong alkalinity formed by the oxidation of guanine. It is used in the manufacture of plastics and explosives.
A strong organic base existing primarily as guanidium ions at physiological pH. It is found in the urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. It is also used in laboratory research as a protein denaturant. (From Martindale, the Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed and Merck Index, 12th ed) It is also used in the treatment of myasthenia and as a fluorescent probe in HPLC.
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C(=N)(N)N
formula: CH5N3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 59.07 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 59.048347172 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 59.048347172 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 75.9
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 26.3
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

