Name: Helium
Text:
Helium appears as a colorless, odorless, noncombustible gas. Can asphyxiate. Inhalation causes the voice to become squeaky (Mickey Mouse voice). Exposure of the container to prolonged heat or fire can cause it to rupture violently and rocket. If liquefied, contact of the very cold liquid with water causes violent boiling. Pressures may build to dangerous levels if the liquid contacts water in a closed container. Used in arc welding, to trace leaks in refrigeration and other closed systems and as a lifting gas for lighter-than-air aircraft.
Helium is a colorless odorless gas. It is lighter than air. It is nonflammable and is only slightly soluble in water. It is chemically inert. When shipped as a liquid it is very cold and will solidify all other gases. Contact with the liquid will cause severe frostbite. Liquid helium is used in cryogenic research and as a nuclear reactor coolant.
Helium(0) is a monoatomic helium. It has a role as a member of food packaging gas and a NMR chemical shift reference compound.
Helium is a second most abundant chemical element in the universe with symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert, monatomic gas located at the top of the noble gases on the periodic table. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among all the elements. Its clinical benefit in inhalation therapy arises from its advantageous physical properties than ambient air. Helium has lower density than air and generates less resistance than to provide improved lung ventilation. It is also used as an analytical reagent in diagnostic/imaging tests to detect respiratory function of the patient.
Helium is a gaseous element with atomic symbol He, atomic number 2, and atomic weight 4.00.
HELIUM is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2015 and has 2 investigational indications.
helium is a mineral.
A noble gas with the atomic symbol He, atomic number 2, and atomic weight 4.003. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless gas that is not combustible and does not support combustion. It was first detected in the sun and is now obtained from natural gas. Medically it is used as a diluent for other gases, being especially useful with oxygen in the treatment of certain cases of respiratory obstruction, and as a vehicle for general anesthetics.
See also: Helium; Oxygen (component of); Helium; nitrogen; oxygen (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Compressed Gas
smiles: [He]
formula: He
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 4.00260 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 4.002603254 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 4.002603254 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

