Name: Histidine
Text:
L-histidine is the L-enantiomer of the amino acid histidine. It has a role as a nutraceutical, a micronutrient, a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite, an Escherichia coli metabolite, a human metabolite, an algal metabolite and a mouse metabolite. It is a proteinogenic amino acid, a histidine and a L-alpha-amino acid. It is a conjugate base of a L-histidinium(1+). It is a conjugate acid of a L-histidinate(1-). It is an enantiomer of a D-histidine. It is a tautomer of a L-histidine zwitterion.
An essential amino acid that is required for the production of histamine.
L-Histidine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Histidine has been reported in Pinus densiflora, Cyperus aromaticus, and other organisms with data available.
Histidine is a semi-essential amino acid (children should obtain it from food) needed in humans for growth and tissue repair, Histidine is important for maintenance of myelin sheaths that protect nerve cells and is metabolized to the neurotransmitter histamine. Histamines play many roles in immunity, gastric secretion, and sexual functions. Histidine is also required for blood cell manufacture and protects tissues against damage caused by radiation and heavy metals. (NCI04)
HISTIDINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of II (across all indications) and has 3 investigational indications.
Histidine is an alpha-amino acid with an imidazole functional group. It is one of the 22 proteinogenic amino acids. Histidine was first isolated by German physician Albrecht Kossel in 1896. Histidine is an essential amino acid in humans and other mammals. It was initially thought that it was only essential for infants, but longer-term studies established that it is also essential for adults. Infants four to six months old require 33 mg/kg of histidine. It is not clear how adults make small amounts of histidine, and dietary sources probably account for most of the histidine in the body. Histidine is a precursor for histamine and carnosine biosynthesis. Inborn errors of histidine metabolism exist and are marked by increased histidine levels in the blood. Elevated blood histidine is accompanied by a wide range of symptoms, from mental and physical retardation to poor intellectual functioning, emotional instability, tremor, ataxia and psychosis. Histidine and other imidazole compounds have anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-secretory properties  The efficacy of L-histidine in protecting inflamed tissue is attributed to the capacity of the imidazole ring to scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by cells during acute inflammatory response  Histidine, when administered in therapeutic quantities is able to inhibit cytokines and growth factors involved in cell and tissue damage (US patent 6150392). Histidine in medical therapies has its most promising trials in rheumatoid arthritis where up to 4.5 g daily have been used effectively in severely affected patients. Arthritis patients have been found to have low serum histidine levels, apparently because of very rapid removal of histidine from their blood  Other patients besides arthritis patients that have been found to be low in serum histidine are those with chronic renal failure. Urinary levels of histidine are reduced in pediatric patients with pneumonia.  Asthma patients exhibit increased serum levels of histidine over normal controls   Serum histidine levels are lower and are negatively associated with inflammation and oxidative stress in obese women   Histidine supplementation has been shown to reduce insulin resistance, reduce BMI and fat mass and suppress inflammation and oxidative stress in obese women with metabolic syndrome.  Histidine appears to suppress pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, possibly via the NF-kappaB pathway, in adipocytes  Low plasma concentrations of histidine are associated with protein-energy wasting, inflammation, oxidative stress, and greater mortality in chronic kidney disease patients  Histidine may have many other possible functions because it is the precursor of the ubiquitous neurohormone-neurotransmitter histamine. Histidine increases histamine in the blood and probably in the brain. Low blood histamine with low serum histidine occurs in rheumatoid arthritis patients. Low blood histamine also occurs in some manic, schizophrenic, high copper and hyperactive groups of psychiatric patients. Histidine is a useful therapy in all patients with low histamine levels.
An essential amino acid that is required for the production of HISTAMINE.
See also: Histidine Monohydrochloride (has salt form); Histidine Monohydrochloride Monohydrate (is active moiety of); Fenugreek seed (part of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C1=C(NC=N1)C[C@@H](C(=O)O)N
formula: C6H9N3O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 155.15 g/mol
XLogP3: -3.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 155.069476538 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 155.069476538 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 92
Heavy Atom Count: 11
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 151
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

