Name: Hydrochloric Acid
Text:
At room temperature, hydrogen chloride is a colorless to slightly yellow, corrosive, nonflammable gas that is heavier than air and has a strong irritating odor. On exposure to air, hydrogen chloride forms dense white corrosive vapors. Hydrogen chloride can be released from volcanoes. Hydrogen chloride has many uses, including cleaning, pickling, electroplating metals, tanning leather, and refining and producing a wide variety of products. Hydrogen chloride can be formed during the burning of many plastics. Upon contact with water, it forms hydrochloric acid. Both hydrogen chloride and hydrochloric acid are corrosive.
Hydrochloric acid, solution is a colorless watery liquid with a sharp, irritating odor. Consists of hydrogen chloride, a gas, dissolved in water. Sinks and mixes with water. Produces irritating vapor. (USCG, 1999)
Hydrogen chloride, anhydrous appears as a colorless gas with a sharp, pungent odor. Fumes strongly in moist air. Nonflammable. Corrosive to metals and tissues and irritating to the eyes and respiratory system. Heavier than air. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations or short-term inhalation of high concentrations has adverse health effects. Prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat may result in the violent rupture and rocketing of the container. Used in the manufacture of rubber, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and in gasoline refining and metals processing.   Rate of onset: Immediate  Persistence: Minutes to hours  Odor threshold: 0.77 ppm  Source/use/other hazard: Ore, other metal refining/cleaning; food/pickling; petroleum; corrosive liq.
Hydrogen chloride, refrigerated liquid appears as a colorless liquid with a sharp, pungent odor. Vapors are heavier than air. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations of vapors or short-term inhalation of high concentrations has adverse health effects. Exposure of the container to intense heat may cause its violent rupture and rocketing.
Chlorine atom is a halogen. It has a role as a micronutrient.
Hydrochloric acid has many uses. It is used in the production of chlorides, fertilizers, and dyes, in electroplating, and in the photographic, textile, and rubber industries. Hydrochloric acid is corrosive to the eyes, skin, and mucous membranes. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure may cause eye, nose, and respiratory tract irritation and inflammation and pulmonary edema in humans. Acute oral exposure may cause corrosion of the mucous membranes, esophagus, and stomach and dermal contact may produce severe burns, ulceration, and scarring in humans. Chronic (long-term) occupational exposure to hydrochloric acid has been reported to cause gastritis, chronic bronchitis, dermatitis, and photosensitization in workers. Prolonged exposure to low concentrations may also cause dental discoloration and erosion. EPA has not classified hydrochloric acid for carcinogenicity.
Hydron;chloride has been reported in Homo sapiens with data available.
HCl refers to both hydrogen chloride gas and aqueous hydrochloric acid.  Hydrogen chloride gas is a colorless gas formed from the reaction of hydrogen with chlorine.  It forms white fumes of hydrochloric acid upon contact with atmospheric humidity. Hydrochloric acid is a highly corrosive, strong mineral acid with many industrial uses. Hydrochloric acid is found naturally in gastric acid. Hydrogen chloride gas and hydrochloric acid are important in technology and industry.  For example, hydrochloric acid is used in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic, and MDI/TDI for polyurethane. It has numerous smaller-scale applications, including household cleaning, production of gelatin and other food additives, descaling, and leather processing.  Hydrogen chloride is less widely used, although even in the absence of water, hydrogen chloride can still act as an acid. For example, hydrogen chloride can dissolve in certain other solvents such as methanol, protonate molecules or ions, and serve as an acid-catalyst for chemical reactions where anhydrous (water-free) conditions are desired. Hydrogen chloride is corrosive, particularly in the presence of moisture.  Likewise hydrochloric acid is also extremely corrosive. Most hydrochloric acid is sold or is available as a 38% aqueous solution.
A strong corrosive acid that is commonly used as a laboratory reagent. It is formed by dissolving hydrogen chloride in water. GASTRIC ACID is the hydrochloric acid component of GASTRIC JUICE.
See also: Hydrocarbons, Chlorinated (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Acute Toxic
smiles: Cl
formula: ClH
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 36.46 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 35.9766777 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 35.9766777 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

