Name: Hydrochlorothiazide
Text:
Crystals or white powder. (NTP, 1992)
Hydrochlorothiazide is a benzothiadiazine that is 3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine 1,1-dioxide substituted by a chloro group at position 6 and a sulfonamide at 7. It is diuretic used for the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure. It has a role as a xenobiotic, an environmental contaminant, a diuretic and an antihypertensive agent. It is a benzothiadiazine, a sulfonamide and an organochlorine compound.
Hydrochlorothiazide is the most commonly prescribed thiazide diuretic. It is indicated to treat edema and hypertension. Hydrochlorothiazide use is common but declining in favour of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Many combination products are available containing hydrochlorothiazide and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blockers.  Hydrochlorothiazide was granted FDA approval on 12 February 1959.
Hydrochlorothiazide is a Thiazide Diuretic. The physiologic effect of hydrochlorothiazide is by means of Increased Diuresis.
Hydrochlorothiazide is a short acting thiazide diuretic. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) is widely used to treat hypertension and edema. This agent's metabolite appears to preferentially bind to and accumulate in red blood cells. This agent is primarily excreted by the kidneys.
HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1959 and has 12 approved and 13 investigational indications.
A thiazide diuretic often considered the prototypical member of this class. It reduces the reabsorption of electrolytes from the renal tubules. This results in increased excretion of water and electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, chloride, and magnesium. It has been used in the treatment of several disorders including edema, hypertension, diabetes insipidus, and hypoparathyroidism. 
A thiazide diuretic often considered the prototypical member of this class. It reduces the reabsorption of electrolytes from the renal tubules. This results in increased excretion of water and electrolytes, including sodium, potassium, chloride, and magnesium. It is used in the treatment of several disorders including edema, hypertension, diabetes insipidus, and hypoparathyroidism.
See also: Hydrochlorothiazide; Triamterene (component of); Hydralazine hydrochloride; hydrochlorothiazide (component of); Hydrochlorothiazide; methyldopa (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C1NC2=CC(=C(C=C2S(=O)(=O)N1)S(=O)(=O)N)Cl
formula: C7H8ClN3O4S2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 297.7 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 296.9644758 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 296.9644758 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 135
Heavy Atom Count: 17
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 494
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

