Name: Hydrogen Cyanide
Text:
Hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and cyanide salts (CN salts) can cause male reproductive toxicity according to The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Hydrogen cyanide, anhydrous, stabilized appears as a chemical warfare blood agent. A deadly human poison by all routes. Very volatile.  Colorless or pale-blue liquid or gas (above 78 °F) with a bitter, almond-like odor. Often used as a 96% solution in water. (NIOSH, 2024)
Hydrogen cyanide is a one-carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom It has a role as a human metabolite, an Escherichia coli metabolite and a poison. It is a hydracid and a one-carbon compound. It is a conjugate acid of a cyanide. It is a tautomer of a hydrogen isocyanide.
Hydrogen cyanide is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Cyanide is used in a number of industries and is found at low levels in air from car exhaust. Cyanide is extremely toxic to humans. Chronic (long-term) inhalation exposure of humans to cyanide results primarily in effects on the central nervous system (CNS). Other effects in humans include cardiovascular and respiratory effects, an enlarged thyroid gland, and irritation to the eyes and skin. No data are available on the carcinogenic effects of cyanide in humans via inhalation. Animal studies have suggested that oral exposure to cassava (a cyanide-containing vegetable) may be associated with malformations in the fetus and low fetal body weights. EPA has classified cyanide as a Group D, not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity.
Hydrogen Cyanide has been reported in Prunus persica, Vigna umbellata, and other organisms with data available.
Hydrogen Cyanide is a highly toxic conjugate acid of a cyanide that is used as a chemical weapon agent. It is characterized as a colorless gas or liquid with a strong pungent odor that causes irritation of the eyes and respiratory tract, as well as toxic systemic effects.
Hydrogen cyanide (with the historical common name of Prussic acid) is a chemical compound with chemical formula HCN. It is a colorless, extremely poisonous liquid that boils slightly above room temperature at 26 C (79ЎF). A hydrogen cyanide concentration of 300 mg/m3 in air will kill a human within 10Р60 minutes.[38] A hydrogen cyanide concentration of 3500 ppm (about 3200 mg/m3) will kill a human in about 1 minute.[38] The toxicity is caused by the cyanide ion, which halts cellular respiration by acting as a non-competitive inhibitor for an enzyme in mitochondria called cytochrome c oxidase.
Hydrogen cyanide (HCN); A toxic liquid or colorless gas. It is found in the smoke of various tobacco products and released by combustion of nitrogen-containing organic materials.
See also: Hydrogen cyanide ...%; hydrocyanic acid ...% (annotation moved to); Hydrogen cyanide, anhydrous, stabilized (absorbed) (annotation moved to); Hydrogen cyanide, liquefied (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: C#N
formula: CHN
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 27.025 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 27.010899036 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 27.010899036 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 23.8
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 10
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

