Name: Hydrogen Peroxide
Text:
Hydrogen peroxide is a colorless liquid at room temperature with a bitter taste. Small amounts of gaseous hydrogen peroxide occur naturally in the air. Hydrogen peroxide is unstable, decomposing readily to oxygen and water with release of heat. Although nonflammable, it is a powerful oxidizing agent that can cause spontaneous combustion when it comes in contact with organic material. Hydrogen peroxide is found in many households at low concentrations (3-9%) for medicinal applications and as a clothes and hair bleach. In industry, hydrogen peroxide in higher concentrations is used as a bleach for textiles and paper, as a component of rocket fuels, and for producing foam rubber and organic chemicals.
Hydrogen peroxide, aqueous solution, stabilized, with more than 60% hydrogen peroxide appears as a colorless liquid. Vapors may irritate the eyes and mucous membranes. Under prolonged exposure to fire or heat containers may violently rupture due to decomposition. Used to bleach textiles and wood pulp, in chemical manufacturing and food processing.
Hydrogen peroxide, aqueous solution, with not less than 20% but not more than 60% hydrogen peroxide (stabilized as necessary) appears as colorless aqueous solution. Vapors may irritate the eyes and mucous membranes. Contact with most common metals and their compounds may cause violent decomposition, especially in the higher concentrations. Contact with combustible materials may result in spontaneous ignition. Prolonged exposure to fire or heat may cause decomposition and rupturing of the container. Used to bleach textiles and wood pulp, in chemical manufacturing and food processing.
Hydrogen peroxide solution is the colorless liquid dissolved in water. Its vapors are irritating to the eyes and mucous membranes. The material, especially the higher concentrations, can violently decompose in contact with most common metals and their compounds. Contact with combustible materials can result in spontaneous ignition. Under prolonged exposure to fire or heat containers may violently rupture due to decomposition of the material. It is used to bleach textiles and wood pulp, in chemical manufacturing and food processing.
Hydrogen peroxide, stabilized appears as a crystalline solid at low temperatures. Has a slightly pungent, irritating odor. Used in the bleaching and deodorizing of textiles, wood pulp, hair, fur, etc. as a source of organic and inorganic peroxides; pulp and paper industry; plasticizers; rocket fuel; foam rubber; manufacture of glycerol; antichlor; dyeing; electroplating; antiseptic; laboratory reagent; epoxidation; hydroxylation; oxidation and reduction; viscosity control for starch and cellulose derivatives; refining and cleaning metals; bleaching and oxidizing agent in foods; neutralizing agent in wine distillation; seed disinfectant; substitute for chlorine in water and sewage treatment. (EPA, 1998)
Peroxides is compounds of structure ROOR'. It has a role as an oxidising agent. It contains a peroxy group.
Hydrogen peroxide is the simplest peroxide with a chemical formula H2O2. Hydrogen peroxide is an unstable compound in the presence of a base or catalyst, and is typically stored with a stabilizer in a weakly acidic solution. If heated to its boiling point, it may undergo potentially explosive thermal decomposition. Hydrogen peroxide is formed in the body of mammals during reduction of oxygen either directly in a two-electron transfer reaction. As a natural product of metabolism, it readily undergoes decomposition by catalase in normal cells.   Due to its potent and broad-spectrum antimicrobial actions, hydrogen peroxide is used in both liquid and gas form for preservative, disinfection and sterilization applications as an oxidative biocide. It is used in industrial and cosmetic applications as a bleaching agent. Hydrogen peroxide is also considered as a generally recognized as safe compound by the FDA; it is used as an antimicrobial agent in starch and cheese products, and as an oxidizing and reducing agent in products containing dried eggs, dried egg whites, and dried egg yolks.
Hydrogen peroxide is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Hydrogen Peroxide has been reported in Homo sapiens and Coffea arabica with data available.
Hydrogen Peroxide is a peroxide and oxidizing agent with disinfectant, antiviral and anti-bacterial activities. Upon rinsing and gargling or topical application, hydrogen peroxide exerts its oxidizing activity and produces free radicals which leads to oxidative damage to proteins and membrane lipids. This may inactivate and destroy pathogens and may prevent spreading of infection.
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2017 and has 4 approved and 8 investigational indications.
hydrogen peroxide is a mineral.
A strong oxidizing agent used in aqueous solution as a ripening agent, bleach, and topical anti-infective. It is relatively unstable and solutions deteriorate over time unless stabilized by the addition of acetanilide or similar organic materials.
See also: Carbamide Peroxide (active moiety of); Magnesium peroxide (active moiety of); Sodium percarbonate (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: OO
formula: H2O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 34.015 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 34.005479302 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 34.005479302 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 40.5
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

