Name: Icosapent
Text:
All-cis-5,8,11,14,17-icosapentaenoic acid is an icosapentaenoic acid having five cis-double bonds at positions 5, 8, 11, 14 and 17. It has a role as a nutraceutical, a micronutrient, an antineoplastic agent, an antidepressant, a Daphnia galeata metabolite, a mouse metabolite, an anticholesteremic drug and a fungal metabolite. It is an icosapentaenoic acid and an omega-3 fatty acid. It is a conjugate acid of an all-cis-5,8,11,14,17-icosapentaenoate.
Important polyunsaturated fatty acid found in fish oils. It serves as the precursor for the prostaglandin-3 and thromboxane-3 families. A diet rich in eicosapentaenoic acid lowers serum lipid concentration, reduces incidence of cardiovascular disorders, prevents platelet aggregation, and inhibits arachidonic acid conversion into the thromboxane-2 and prostaglandin-2 families.
Eicosapentaenoic acid has been reported in Mortierella alpina, Tornabea scutellifera, and other organisms with data available.
Icosapent is the free fatty acid (FFA) form of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), a polyunsaturated long-chain fatty acid found in fish oil with a 20-carbon backbone and 5 double bonds, with potential supplementing, anti-inflammatory, anti-thrombotic, immunomodulating, anti-angiogenic and chemopreventive activities. Upon administration of icosapent, the free form of EPA is incorporated in cell membrane phospholipids and replaces arachidonic acid. This inhibits arachidonic acid conversion into thromboxanes and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2).  Upon oral administration of icosapent, the EPA-FFA prevents and suppresses colonic neoplasia and reduces polyp formation and growth through as of yet not fully elucidated mechanisms.
ICOSAPENT is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 48 investigational indications.
Important polyunsaturated fatty acid found in fish oils. It serves as the precursor for the prostaglandin-3 and thromboxane-3 families. A diet rich in eicosapentaenoic acid lowers serum lipid concentration, reduces incidence of cardiovascular disorders, prevents platelet aggregation, and inhibits arachidonic acid conversion into the thromboxane-2 and prostaglandin-2 families.
See also: Icosapent Ethyl (active moiety of); Eicosapentaenoic Acid (subclass of); Fish Oil (is active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive
smiles: CC/C=C\C/C=C\C/C=C\C/C=C\C/C=C\CCCC(=O)O
formula: C20H30O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 302.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 5.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 13
Exact Mass: 302.224580195 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 302.224580195 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 37.3
Heavy Atom Count: 22
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 398
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 5
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

