Name: Imatinib
Text:
Imatinib is a benzamide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 4-[(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)methyl]benzoic acid with the primary aromatic amino group of 4-methyl-N(3)-[4-(pyridin-3-yl)pyrimidin-2-yl]benzene-1,3-diamine. Used (as its mesylate salt) for treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia and gastrointestinal stromal tumours. It has a role as an apoptosis inducer, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor and an antineoplastic agent. It is a N-methylpiperazine, a member of pyridines, a member of benzamides, an aromatic amine and a member of pyrimidines. It is functionally related to a benzamide.
Imatinib is a small molecule kinase inhibitor that revolutionized the treatment of cancer, particularly chronic myeloid leukemia, in 2001. It was deemed a "miracle drug" due to its clinical success, as oncologist Dr. Brian noted that "complete hematologic responses were observed in 53 of 54 patients with CML treated with a daily dosage of 300 mg or more and typically occurred in the first four weeks of therapy".. The discovery of imatinib also established a new group of therapy called "targeted therapy", since treatment can be tailored specifically to the unique cancer genetics of each patient.   Imatinib was approved on February 1st ,2001 by the FDA and November 7th, 2001 by the EMA; however, its European approval has been withdrawn in October 2023.
Imatinib is a Kinase Inhibitor. The mechanism of action of imatinib is as a Bcr-Abl Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor, and Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitor, and Cytochrome P450 2D6 Inhibitor.
Imatinib is specific tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitor that is used in the therapy of Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, both of which are marked by an abnormal, constitutively expressed tyrosine kinase that causes unregulated cell growth. Imatinib therapy is associated with transient elevations in serum aminotransferase levels and rare instances of clinically apparent acute liver injury which can be severe and sometimes fatal.
Imatinib is an antineoplastic agent that inhibits the Bcr-Abl fusion protein tyrosine kinase, an abnormal enzyme produced by chronic myeloid leukemia cells that contain the Philadelphia chromosome.  Imatinib also inhibits the receptor tyrosine kinases for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and stem cell factor (SCF)/c-kit; the SCF/c-kit receptor tyrosine kinase is activated in gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).  This agent inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in cells that overexpress these oncoproteins.
IMATINIB is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2001 and is indicated for chronic myelogenous leukemia and has 110 investigational indications.
A tyrosine kinase inhibitor and ANTINEOPLASTIC AGENT that inhibits the BCR-ABL kinase created by chromosome rearrangements in CHRONIC MYELOID LEUKEMIA and ACUTE LYMPHOBLASTIC LEUKEMIA, as well as PDG-derived tyrosine kinases that are overexpressed in gastrointestinal stromal tumors.
See also: Imatinib Mesylate (has salt form); IKT-001Pro (is active moiety of).
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=C(C=C(C=C1)NC(=O)C2=CC=C(C=C2)CN3CCN(CC3)C)NC4=NC=CC(=N4)C5=CN=CC=C5
formula: C29H31N7O
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 493.6 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 7
Exact Mass: 493.25900864 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 493.25900864 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 86.3
Heavy Atom Count: 37
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 706
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

