Name: Iodine
Text:
Iodine is a naturally occurring element found in sea water and in certain rocks and sediments. There are non radioactive and radioactive forms of iodine. Iodine is used as a disinfectant for cleaning surfaces and storage containers and is used in skin soaps and bandages, and for purifying water. Iodine is also added to some table salt to ensure that all people in the United States have enough iodine in their diet. Most radioactive iodine is manmade. It is used in medical tests and to treat certain diseases. Most radioactive forms of iodine change very quickly (seconds to days) to stable elements that are not radioactive. However, 129I (read as iodine 129) changes very slowly (over millions of years).
Violet-black crystals with a metallic luster and a sharp odor. Mp: 133.5 °C, bp: 185 °C. Emits toxic vapor at room conditions; vapor becomes visibly purple when its concentration builds up in a confined space. Nearly insoluble in water but very soluble in aqueous solutions of iodides.
Diiodine is molecule comprising two covalently bonded iodine atoms with overall zero charge.. It has a role as a nutrient.
Iodine is commonly used as an antiseptic for minor cuts and abrasions, preventing infections that may result from contaminated wounds. Additionally, iodine has been studied in the treatment of fibrocystic disease and breast cancer.
Iodine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Iodine has been reported in Homo sapiens with data available.
Iodine is an element with atomic symbol I, atomic number 53, and atomic weight of 126.90.
IODINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 10 investigational indications.
Iodine is a mineral with formula of I.
Iodine is an essential trace element. Chemically, iodine is the least reactive of the halogens, and the most electropositive halogen after astatine. However, iodine does not occur in the free state in nature. As with all other halogens , when freed from its compounds iodine forms diatomic molecules (I2). Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in medicine, photography, and dyes. Iodine is required for the production of thyroid hormones, which are essential for normal brain development, and the fetus, newborn, and young child are particularly vulnerable to iodine deficiency. Physiologically, iodine exists as an ion in the body. The iodine requirement increases during pregnancy and recommended intakes are in the range of 220-250 microg/day. Monitoring iodine status during pregnancy is a challenge. New recommendations from World Health Organization suggest that a median urinary iodine concentration >250 microg/L and <500 microg/L indicates adequate iodine intake in pregnancy. Based on this range, it appears that many pregnant women in have inadequate intakes. Thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration in the newborn is a sensitive indicator of mild iodine deficiency in late pregnancy. The potential adverse effects of mild iodine deficiency during pregnancy are uncertain. Controlled trials of iodine supplementation in mildly iodine-deficient pregnant women suggest beneficial effects on maternal and newborn serum thyroglobulin and thyroid volume, but no effects on maternal and newborn total or free thyroid hormone concentrations. There are no long-term data on the effect of iodine supplementation on birth outcomes or infant development. New data from well-controlled studies indicate that iodine repletion in moderately iodine-deficient school-age children has clear benefits: it improves cognitive and motor function; it also increases concentrations of insulin-like growth factor 1 and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3, and improves somatic growth. (A7846).
A nonmetallic element of the halogen group that is represented by the atomic symbol I, atomic number 53, and atomic weight of 126.90. It is a nutritionally essential element, especially important in thyroid hormone synthesis. In solution, it has anti-infective properties and is used topically.
See also: Potassium Iodide (active moiety of); Povidone-Iodine (active moiety of); Ethiodized Oil (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Environmental Hazard
smiles: II
formula: I2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 253.8089 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 253.80895 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 253.80895 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

