Name: Iron
Text:
Iron, [powdered] appears as a gray lustrous powder. Used in powder metallurgy and as a catalyst in chemical manufacture.
Iron atom is an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26. It has a role as a micronutrient and an Escherichia coli metabolite.
A metallic element found in certain minerals, in nearly all soils, and in mineral waters. It is an essential constituent of hemoglobin, cytochrome, and other components of respiratory enzyme systems. Its chief functions are in the transport of oxygen to tissue (hemoglobin) and in cellular oxidation mechanisms. Depletion of iron stores may result in iron-deficiency anemia. Iron is used to build up the blood in anemia.
Iron is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Iron is an essential heavy metal that is included in many over-the-counter multivitamin and mineral supplements and is used therapeutically in higher doses to treat or prevent iron deficiency anemia. When taken at the usual recommended daily allowance or in replacement doses, iron has little or no adverse effect on the liver. In high doses and in intentional or accidental overdoses, iron causes serious toxicities, one component of which is acute liver damage.
Iron has been reported in Triumfetta rhomboidea, Artemia salina, and other organisms with data available.
Iron is an element with atomic symbol Fe, atomic number 26, and atomic weight 55.85.
Iron is a mineral with formula of Fe. The IMA symbol is Fe.
A metallic element found in certain minerals, in nearly all soils, and in mineral waters. It is an essential constituent of hemoglobin, cytochrome, and other components of respiratory enzyme systems. Its chief functions are in the transport of oxygen to tissue (hemoglobin) and in cellular oxidation mechanisms. Depletion of iron stores may result in iron-deficiency anemia. Iron is used to build up the blood in anemia. 
A metallic element with atomic symbol Fe, atomic number 26, and atomic weight 55.85. It is an essential constituent of HEMOGLOBINS; CYTOCHROMES; and IRON-BINDING PROTEINS. It plays a role in cellular redox reactions and in the transport of OXYGEN.
See also: Ferrous Fumarate (active moiety of); Ferrous Ascorbate (is active moiety of); Broccoli (part of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [Fe]
formula: Fe
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 55.84 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 55.934936 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 55.934936 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

