Name: Lauric Acid
Text:
Lauric acid is a white solid with a slight odor of bay oil. (USCG, 1999)
Dodecanoic acid is a straight-chain, twelve-carbon medium-chain saturated fatty acid with strong bactericidal properties; the main fatty acid in coconut oil and palm kernel oil. It has a role as a plant metabolite, an antibacterial agent and an algal metabolite. It is a straight-chain saturated fatty acid and a medium-chain fatty acid. It is a conjugate acid of a dodecanoate. It derives from a hydride of a dodecane.
Lauric acid is an inexpensive, non-toxic and safe to handle compound often used in laboratory investigations of melting-point depression. Lauric acid is a solid at room temperature but melts easily in boiling water, so liquid lauric acid can be treated with various solutes and used to determine their molecular masses.
Dodecanoic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Lauric Acid has been reported in Ipomoea leptophylla, Arisaema tortuosum, and other organisms with data available.
Lauric Acid is a saturated medium-chain fatty acid with a 12-carbon backbone. Lauric acid is found naturally in various plant and animal fats and oils, and is a major component of coconut oil and palm kernel oil.
Lauric acid, or dodecanoic acid is the main fatty acid in coconut oil and in palm kernel oil, and is believed to have antimicrobial properties. It is a white, powdery solid with a faint odor of bay oil. Lauric acid, although slightly irritating to mucous membranes, has a very low toxicity and so is used in many soaps and shampoos.
lauric acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
See also: Saw Palmetto (part of); Arctium lappa Root (part of); Iris versicolor root (part of).
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: CCCCCCCCCCCC(=O)O
formula: C12H24O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 200.32 g/mol
XLogP3: 4.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 10
Exact Mass: 200.177630004 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 200.177630004 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 37.3
Heavy Atom Count: 14
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 132
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

