Name: Lead
Text:
Lead is a naturally occurring bluish-gray metal found in small amounts in the earth's crust. Lead can be found in all parts of our environment. Much of it comes from human activities including burning fossil fuels, mining, and manufacturing. Lead has many different uses. It is used in the production of batteries, ammunition, metal products (solder and pipes), and devices to shield X-rays. Because of health concerns, lead from gasoline, paints and ceramic products, caulking, and pipe solder has been dramatically reduced in recent years.CDC uses a blood lead reference value (BLRV) of 3.5 micrograms per deciliter (&#956;g/dL) to identify children with higher levels of lead in their blood compared to most children. This level is based on the 97.5th percentile of the blood lead values among U.S. children ages 1""5 years from the 2015""2016 and 2017""2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey cycles. Children with blood lead levels at or above the BLRV represent those at the top 2.5% with the highest blood lead levels. To learn more about CDC's updated recommendations on children's blood lead levels, please visit:http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/ACCLPP/blood_lead_levels.htm.
Lead and Lead Compounds can cause cancer according to The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). It can cause developmental toxicity, female reproductive toxicity and male reproductive toxicity according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Soft silver-bluish white to gray metal. (NTP, 1992)
Lead(0) is an elemental lead. It has a role as a neurotoxin.
Lead is used in the manufacture of batteries, metal products and ammunition. Exposure to lead can occur from breathing contaminated air in or near workplaces that process lead or lead materials, as well as from incidentally ingesting dust or paint chips in houses with lead-based paint. Lead can cause effects on the blood, as well as the nervous, immune, renal and cardiovascular systems. Early childhood and prenatal exposures are associated with slowed cognitive development, learning deficits and other effects. Exposure to high amounts of lead can cause gastrointestinal symptoms, severely damage the brain and kidneys, and may cause reproductive effects. Large doses of some lead compounds have caused cancer in lab animals.
Lead has been reported in Paris polyphylla var. chinensis with data available.
Lead Metal is an element with atomic symbol Pb, atomic number 82, and atomic weight 207.2.
Lead is a mineral with formula of Pb. The IMA symbol is Pb.
A soft, grayish metal with poisonous salts; atomic number 82, atomic weight 207.2, symbol Pb.
See also: Lead carbonate (active moiety of); Tobacco Leaf (part of); Lead monosilicate (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [Pb]
formula: Pb
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 207 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 207.97665 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 207.97665 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

