Name: Limonene, (+/-)-
Text:
Dipentene appears as a colorless liquid with an odor of lemon. Flash point 113 °F. Density about 7.2 lb /gal and insoluble in water. Hence floats on water. Vapors heavier than air. Used as a solvent for rosin, waxes, rubber; as a dispersing agent for oils, resins, paints, lacquers, varnishes, and in floor waxes and furniture polishes.
Limonene is a monoterpene that is cyclohex-1-ene substituted by a methyl group at position 1 and a prop-1-en-2-yl group at position 4 respectively. It has a role as a human metabolite. It is a cycloalkene and a p-menthadiene.
Limonene, (+/-)- is under investigation in clinical trial NCT05525260 (Limonene for Pulmonary Nodule Chemoprevention).
Limonene has been reported in Camellia sinensis, Hypericum foliosum, and other organisms with data available.
Limonene, (+/-)- is a racemic mixture of limonene, a natural cyclic monoterpene and major component of the oil extracted from citrus rind with chemo-preventive and antitumor activities. The metabolites of DL-limonene, perillic acid, dihydroperillic acid, uroterpenol and limonene 1,2-diol are suggested to inhibit tumor growth through inhibition of p21-dependent signaling, induce apoptosis via the induction of the transforming growth factor beta-signaling pathway, inhibit post-translational modification of signal transduction proteins, result in G1 cell cycle arrest as well as cause differential expression of cell cycle- and apoptosis-related genes.
Limonene is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A naturally-occurring class of MONOTERPENES which occur as a clear colorless liquid at room temperature. Limonene is the major component in the oil of oranges which has many uses, including as flavor and fragrance. It is recognized as safe in food by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
See also: Cannabis sativa subsp. indica top (part of); Larrea tridentata whole (part of); Limonene, (+)- (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CC1=CCC(CC1)C(=C)C
formula: C10H16
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 136.23 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 136.125200510 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 136.125200510 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 10
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 163
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

