Name: Lithium Carbonate
Text:
Lithium Carbonate can cause developmental toxicity according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Lithium carbonate appears as a white powder. Strong irritant when dissolved in water.
Lithium carbonate is a lithium salt and a carbonate salt. It has a role as an antimanic drug.
Lithium has been used to treat manic episodes since the 19th century. Though it is widely used, its mechanism of action is still unknown. Lithium carbonate has a narrow therapeutic range and so careful monitoring is required to avoid adverse effects.
Lithium Carbonate is the carbonate salt of lithium, a soft alkali metal, with antimanic and hematopoietic activities. Lithium interferes with transmembrane sodium exchange in nerve cells by affecting sodium, potassium-stimulated adenosine triphosphatase (Na+, K+-ATPase); alters the release of neurotransmitters; affects cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) concentrations; and blocks inositol metabolism resulting in depletion of cellular inositol and inhibition of phospholipase C-mediated signal transduction. The exact mechanism through which lithium exerts its mood-stabilizing effect has not been established. In addition, lithium stimulates granulocytopoiesis and appears to increase the level of pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells by stimulating the release of hematopoietic cytokines and/or directly acting on hematopoietic stem cells.
LITHIUM CARBONATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1970 and has 4 approved and 36 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
A lithium salt, classified as a mood-stabilizing agent. Lithium ion alters the metabolism of BIOGENIC MONOAMINES in the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM, and affects multiple neurotransmission systems.
See also: Lithium Cation (has active moiety); Lithium carbonate; toxicodendron pubescens leaf (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: [Li+].[Li+].C(=O)([O-])[O-]
formula: CLi2O3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 73.9 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 74.01675073 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 74.01675073 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 63.2
Heavy Atom Count: 6
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 18.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 3
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

