Name: Magnesium Chloride
Text:
Magnesium dichloride is a magnesium salt comprising of two chlorine atoms bound to a magnesium atom. It is a magnesium salt, an inorganic chloride, a magnesium halide and an inorganic magnesium salt.
Magnesium chloride salts are highly soluble in water and the hydrated form of magnesium chloride can be extracted from brine or sea water.
Magnesium Chloride is magnesium Chloride was used as a laxative. An alkaline earth metal, magnesium is important for many biochemical functions and reactions; for bone and muscle function, protein and fatty acid formation, activation of B vitamins, blood clotting, insulin secretion, and ATP formation. More than 300 enzymes require magnesium for catalytic action. The adult daily requirement is about 300 mg/day. Magnesium is found in many green plants, vegetables, and seeds; chlorophyll is a magnesium-centered porphyrin compound. Magnesium salts are used for magnesium deficiency supplementation. (NCI04)
MAGNESIUM CHLORIDE ANHYDROUS is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and is indicated for hemorrhage and has 5 investigational indications.
Magnesium chloride. An inorganic compound consisting of one magnesium and two chloride ions. The compound is used in medicine as a source of magnesium ions, which are essential for many cellular activities. It has also been used as a cathartic and in alloys.
See also: Chloride Ion (has active moiety); Magnesium Cation (has active moiety); Aluminum oxide; magnesium chloride (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: [Mg+2].[Cl-].[Cl-]
formula: Cl2Mg
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 95.21 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 93.9227471 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 93.9227471 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 3
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

