Name: Magnesium Oxide
Text:
Magnesium oxide appears as a white solid, often found as a powder. When fine particles of magnesium oxide are dispersed in air, whether directly or when generated by the burning or cutting of magnesium metal, the resulting magnesium oxide fume is an inhalation hazard.
Magnesium oxide is an inorganic compound that occurs in nature as the mineral periclase. In aqueous media combines quickly with water to form magnesium hydroxide. It is used as an antacid and mild laxative and has many nonmedicinal uses.
Magnesium Oxide is the oxide salt of magnesium with antacid, laxative and vascular smooth muscle relaxant activities. Magnesium combines with water to form magnesium hydroxide which reacts chemically to neutralize or buffer existing quantities of stomach acid; stomach-content and intra-esophageal pH rise, resulting in a decrease in pepsin activity. This agent's laxative effect is the result, in part, of osmotically mediated water retention, which subsequently stimulates peristalsis. In addition, magnesium ions may behave as calcium antagonists in vascular smooth muscle.
MAGNESIUM OXIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1982 and is indicated for iron deficiency anemia and constipation and has 4 investigational indications.
Magnesium oxide (MgO). An inorganic compound that occurs in nature as the mineral periclase. In aqueous media combines quickly with water to form magnesium hydroxide. It is used as an antacid and mild laxative and has many nonmedicinal uses.
See also: Magnesium Cation (has active moiety); Periclase (narrower); Citric Acid; Magnesium Oxide; Sodium Picosulfate (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: O=[Mg]
formula: MgO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 40.305 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 39.9799563 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 39.9799563 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 17.1
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 2
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

