Name: Magnesium Sulfate
Text:
Magnesium sulfate is a magnesium salt having sulfate as the counterion. It has a role as an anticonvulsant, a cardiovascular drug, a calcium channel blocker, an anaesthetic, a tocolytic agent, an anti-arrhythmia drug, an analgesic and a fertilizer. It is a magnesium salt, a metal sulfate and an organic magnesium salt.
A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
Magnesium Sulfate is a magnesium salt of sulfuric acid, that can be used to normalize magnesium levels in the body, and to prevent seizures in eclampsia and preeclampsia. Magnesium is a divalent cation essential for a number of biochemical processes involved in nerve signaling, bone mineralization and muscle contractions. About 350 enzymes involved in glycolysis and the Krebs cycle, formation of cyclic-AMP and ATP, cellular signal transduction and protein and nucleic acid synthesis are dependent on magnesium. Magnesium blocks neuromuscular transmission and decreases the amount of acetylcholine liberated at the end plate by the motor nerve impulse, thereby preventing convulsions and seizures.
MAGNESIUM SULFATE ANHYDROUS is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1981 and has 7 approved and 60 investigational indications.
A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
A small colorless crystal used as an anticonvulsant, a cathartic, and an electrolyte replenisher in the treatment of pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. It causes direct inhibition of action potentials in myometrial muscle cells. Excitation and contraction are uncoupled, which decreases the frequency and force of contractions. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1992, p1083)
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: [O-]S(=O)(=O)[O-].[Mg+2]
formula: MgSO4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 120.37 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 119.9367713 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 119.9367713 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 88.6
Heavy Atom Count: 6
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 62.2
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

