Name: Maleic Anhydride
Text:
Maleic anhydride appears as colorless crystalline needles, flakes, pellets, rods, briquettes, lumps or a fused mass. Melts at 113 °F. Shipped both as a solid and in the molten state. Vapors, fumes and dusts strong irritate the eyes, skin and mucous membranes. Flash point 218 °F. Autoignition temperature 890 °F. Used to make paints and plastics and other chemicals.
Maleic anhydride is a cyclic dicarboxylic anhydride that is the cyclic anhydride of maleic acid. It has a role as an allergen. It is a cyclic dicarboxylic anhydride and a member of furans.
Maleic anhydride is used in the formulation of resins. Exposure to maleic anhydride may occur from accidental releases to the environment or in workplaces where it is produced or used. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure of humans to maleic anhydride has been observed to cause irritation of the respiratory tract and eye irritation. Chronic (long-term) exposure to maleic anhydride has been observed to cause chronic bronchitis, asthma-like attacks, and upper respiratory tract and eye irritation in workers. In some people, allergies have developed so that lower concentrations can no longer be tolerated. Kidney effects were observed in rats chronically exposed to maleic anhydride via gavage (experimentally placing the chemical in the stomach). EPA has not classified maleic anhydride for carcinogenicity.
Maleic anhydride has been reported in Nicotiana tabacum and Arctostaphylos uva-ursi with data available.
Used in copolymerization reactions, in the Diels-Alder(diene)synthesis, in the preparation of resins, pharmaceuticals and agricultural chemicals. It is a powerful irritant and causes burns.
See also: Carbetimer (monomer of); Malethamer (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C1=CC(=O)OC1=O
formula: C4H2O3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 98.06 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 98.000393922 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 98.000393922 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 43.4
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 129
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

