Name: Mercury
Text:
Mercurycombines with other elements, such as chlorine, sulfur, or oxygen, to form inorganic mercury compounds or "salts", which are usually white powders or crystals. Mercury also combines with carbon to make organic mercury compounds. The most common one, methylmercury, is produced mainly by microscopic organisms in the water and soil. More mercury in the environment can increase the amounts of methylmercury that these small organisms make.Metallic Mercuryis a dense liquid that vaporizes easily at room temperature. Metallic mercury is not easily absorbed into unbroken skin. However, it vaporizes, even at room temperature. The higher the temperature, the more vapors are released. Mercury vapors are colorless and odorless, though they can be seen with the aid of an ultraviolet light.Metallic mercury is used to produce chlorine gas and caustic soda, and is also used in thermometers, dental fillings, and batteries. Mercury salts are sometimes used in skin lightening creams and as antiseptic creams and ointments.
Mercury and Mercury Compounds can cause developmental toxicity according to The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Mercury appears as an odorless, silvery metallic liquid. Insoluble in water. Toxic by ingestion, absorption and inhalation of the fumes. Corrosive to aluminum. Used as a catalyst in instruments, boilers, mirror coatings.
Mercury(0) is elemental mercury of oxidation state zero. It has a role as a neurotoxin.
Mercury is a naturally occurring trace metalloid element and known neurotoxin with atomic symbol Hg, atomic number 80, and atomic weight 200.59. Mercury has been used in manufacturing, as well as in dental and medical equipment, fertilizers, and pesticides. It is characterized as a heavy, silvery-white metallic liquid at room temperature that is odorless. Exposure occurs by inhalation of fumes, ingestion, or contact.
Mercury is a mineral with formula of Hg. The IMA symbol is Hg.
A silver metallic element that exists as a liquid at room temperature. It has the atomic symbol Hg (from hydrargyrum, liquid silver), atomic number 80, and atomic weight 200.59. Mercury is used in many industrial applications and its salts have been employed therapeutically as purgatives, antisyphilitics, disinfectants, and astringents. It can be absorbed through the skin and mucous membranes which leads to MERCURY POISONING. Because of its toxicity, the clinical use of mercury and mercurials is diminishing.
See also: Tobacco Leaf (part of); Mercury; sus scrofa lung (component of); Bos taurus thymus; mercury (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [Hg]
formula: Hg
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 200.59 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 201.970644 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 201.970644 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

