Name: Metformin
Text:
Metformin is a member of the class of guanidines that is biguanide the carrying two methyl substituents at position 1. It has a role as a hypoglycemic agent, a xenobiotic, an environmental contaminant and a geroprotector. It is functionally related to a biguanide. It is a conjugate base of a metformin(1+).
Metformin is a biguanide antihyperglycemic agent and first-line pharmacotherapy used in the management of type II diabetes.   Metformin is considered an antihyperglycemic drug because it lowers blood glucose concentrations in type II diabetes without causing hypoglycemia. It is commonly described as an "insulin sensitizer", leading to a decrease in insulin resistance and a clinically significant reduction of plasma fasting insulin levels. Another well-known benefit of this drug is modest weight loss, making it an effective choice for obese patients type II diabetes.  Metformin was first approved in Canada in 1972, and received subsequent FDA approval in the US in 1995.
Metformin is a Biguanide.
Metformin is a first line agent for the treatment of type 2 diabetes that can be used alone or in combination with sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, incretin-based drugs, sodium glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors, or other hypoglycemic agents. Metformin has not been linked to serum enzyme elevations during therapy and is an exceeding rare cause of idiosyncratic clinically apparent acute liver injury.
Metformin has been reported in Morus alba with data available.
Metformin is an agent belonging to the biguanide class of antidiabetics with antihyperglycemic activity. Metformin is associated with a very low incidence of lactic acidosis. This agent helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and is not associated with weight gain, and prevents the cardiovascular complications of diabetes. Metformin is not metabolized and is excreted unchanged by the kidneys.
METFORMIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1995 and is indicated for diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus and has 181 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
Metformin is the most popular anti-diabetic drug in the United States and one of the most prescribed drugs in the country overall, with nearly 35 million prescriptions filled in 2006 for generic metformin alone. Metformin is a biguanide antihyperglycemic agent used for treating non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). It improves glycemic control by decreasing hepatic glucose production, decreasing glucose absorption and increasing insulin-mediated glucose uptake. Metformin is the only oral antihyperglycemic agent that is not associated with weight gain. Metformin may induce weight loss and is the drug of choice for obese NIDDM patients. When used alone, metformin does not cause hypoglycemia; however, it may potentiate the hypoglycemic effects of sulfonylureas and insulin. Its main side effects are dyspepsia, nausea and diarrhea. Dose titration and/or use of smaller divided doses may decrease side effects. Metformin should be avoided in those with severely compromised renal function (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min), acute/decompensated heart failure, severe liver disease and for 48 hours after the use of iodinated contrast dyes due to the risk of lactic acidosis. Lower doses should be used in the elderly and those with decreased renal function. Metformin decreases fasting plasma glucose, postprandial blood glucose and glycosolated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels, which are reflective of the last 8-10 weeks of glucose control. Metformin may also have a positive effect on lipid levels. In 2012, a combination tablet of linagliptin plus metformin hydrochloride was marketed under the name Jentadueto for use in patients when treatment with both linagliptin and metformin is appropriate.
A biguanide hypoglycemic agent used in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus not responding to dietary modification. Metformin improves glycemic control by improving insulin sensitivity and decreasing intestinal absorption of glucose. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p289)
See also: Metformin Hydrochloride (has salt form); Metformin orotate (is active moiety of); Metformin icosapent (is active moiety of).
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CN(C)C(=N)N=C(N)N
formula: C4H11N5
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 129.16 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 129.10144537 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 129.10144537 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 91.5
Heavy Atom Count: 9
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 132
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

