Name: Methicillin
Text:
Methicillin is a penicillin that is 6-aminopenicillanic acid in which one of the amino hydrogens is replaced by a 2,6-dimethoxybenzoyl group. It has a role as an antibacterial drug. It is a penicillin and a penicillin allergen. It is a conjugate acid of a methicillin(1-).
One of the penicillins which is resistant to penicillinase but susceptible to a penicillin-binding protein. It is inactivated by gastric acid so administered by injection.
Methicillin has been reported in Tanacetum argenteum, Streptomyces cavourensis, and other organisms with data available.
Methicillin is a semisynthetic, narrow spectrum beta-lactamase-resistant penicillin antibiotic with bactericidal and beta-lactamase resistant activity. Methicillin binds to specific penicillin-binding proteins (BPBs) on the bacterial cell wall, thereby preventing the cross-linkage of peptidoglycans, which are critical components of the bacterial cell wall. This leads to an interruption of the bacterial cell wall and causes bacterial lysis.
METHICILLIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1982 and is indicated for bacterial disease and has 1 investigational indication.
One of the PENICILLINS which is resistant to PENICILLINASE but susceptible to a penicillin-binding protein. It is inactivated by gastric acid so administered by injection.
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CC1([C@@H](N2[C@H](S1)[C@@H](C2=O)NC(=O)C3=C(C=CC=C3OC)OC)C(=O)O)C
formula: C17H20N2O6S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 380.4 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 380.10420754 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 380.10420754 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 130
Heavy Atom Count: 26
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 600
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 3
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

