Name: Methamphetamine
Text:
Methamphetamine is a member of the class of amphetamines in which the amino group of (S)-amphetamine carries a methyl substituent. It has a role as a neurotoxin, a psychotropic drug, a central nervous system stimulant, a xenobiotic and an environmental contaminant. It is a member of amphetamines and a secondary amine. It is functionally related to a (S)-amphetamine. It is a conjugate base of a methamphetamine(1+).
Metamfetamine (methamphetamine) is a psychostimulant and sympathomimetic drug, and a member of the amphetamine group of sympathomimetic amines. Methamphetamine can induce effects such as euphoria, increased alertness and energy, and enhanced self-esteem. It is a scheduled drug in most countries due to its high potential for addiction and abuse.   The FDA withdrew its approval for the use of all parenteral drug products containing methamphetamine hydrochloride, a metamfetamine salt.
Methamphetamine is an Amphetamine Anorectic and Central Nervous System Stimulant. The physiologic effect of methamphetamine is by means of Appetite Suppression and Central Nervous System Stimulation and Increased Sympathetic Activity.
Methamphetamine has been reported in Senegalia berlandieri and Vachellia rigidula with data available.
Methamphetamine is an amphetamine with central nervous system (CNS) stimulating activity. Methamphetamine acts by both facilitating the release of catecholamines, particularly noradrenaline, dopamine and serotonin, from nerve terminals in the brain and by inhibiting their uptake. This leads to an increase in synaptic concentration of these neurotransmitters and results in increased stimulation of postsynaptic receptors.
METHAMPHETAMINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1943 and is indicated for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and has 2 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
Methamphetamine is a psychostimulant and sympathomimetic drug. It is a member of the amphetamine group of sympathomimetic amines. Methamphetamine can induce effects such as euphoria, increased alertness and energy, and enhanced self-esteem. It is a scheduled drug in most countries due to its high potential for addiction and abuse.
A central nervous system stimulant and sympathomimetic with actions and uses similar to DEXTROAMPHETAMINE. The smokable form is a drug of abuse and is referred to as crank, crystal, crystal meth, ice, and speed.
See also: Methamphetamine Hydrochloride (has salt form); Methamphetamine saccharate (is active moiety of).
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic
smiles: C[C@@H](CC1=CC=CC=C1)NC
formula: C10H15N
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 149.23 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 149.120449483 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 149.120449483 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 12
Heavy Atom Count: 11
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 95
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

