Name: Methyl Ethyl Ketone
Text:
2-Butanone is a manufactured chemical but it is also present in the environment from natural sources. It is a colorless liquid with a sharp, sweet odor. It is also known as methyl ethyl ketone (MEK). 2-Butanone is produced in large quantities. Nearly half of its use is in paints and other coatings because it will quickly evaporate into the air and it dissolves many substances. It is also used in glues and as a cleaning agent. 2-Butanone occurs as a natural product. It is made by some trees and found in some fruits and vegetables in small amounts. It is also released to the air from car and truck exhausts.
Methyl ethyl ketone appears as colorless fairly volatile liquid with a pleasant pungent odor. Flash point 20 °F. Vapors heavier than air. Does not react with water or many common materials. Stable in normal transportation. Irritates the nose, eyes, and throat. Combustion may produce toxic materials. Density 6.7 lb / gal. Used as a solvent, for making other chemicals, and for production of wax from petroleum.
Butan-2-one is a dialkyl ketone that is a four-carbon ketone carrying a single keto- group at position C-2. It has a role as a polar aprotic solvent and a bacterial metabolite. It is a dialkyl ketone, a methyl ketone, a volatile organic compound and a butanone.
Methyl ethyl ketone is used as a solvent. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure to methyl ethyl ketone in humans results in irritation to the eyes, nose, and throat. Limited information is available on the chronic (long-term) effects of methyl ethyl ketone in humans. Chronic inhalation studies in animals have reported slight neurological, liver, kidney, and respiratory effects. No information is available on the developmental, reproductive, or carcinogenic effects of methyl ethyl ketone in humans. Developmental effects, including decreased fetal weight and fetal malformations, have been reported in mice and rats exposed to methyl ethyl ketone via inhalation and ingestion. EPA has classified methyl ethyl ketone as a Group D, not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity.
Methyl Ethyl Ketone has been reported in Alpinia chinensis, Tuber melanosporum, and other organisms with data available.
Butanone occurs as a natural product. It is made by some trees and found in some fruits and vegetables in small amounts. It is also released to the air from car and truck exhausts. The known health effects to people from exposure to butanone are irritation of the nose, throat, skin, and eyes. (wikipedia).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant
smiles: CCC(=O)C
formula: C4H8O
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 72.11 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 72.057514874 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 72.057514874 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 17.1
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 38.9
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

