Name: Methadone Hydrochloride
Text:
Methadone hydrochloride is a hydrochloride. It contains a methadone.
Methadone Hydrochloride is the hydrochloride salt of methadone, a synthetic opioid with analgesic activity. Similar to morphine and other morphine-like agents, methadone mimics the actions of endogenous peptides at CNS opioid receptors, primarily the mu-receptor, resulting in characteristic morphine-like effects including analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, miosis, bradycardia and physical dependence. Because of the prolonged half-life of methadone compared to other morphine-like agents such as heroin, the onset of opiate withdrawal symptoms is slower, the duration of opiate withdrawal is prolonged, and opiate withdrawal symptoms are less severe.
METHADONE HYDROCHLORIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1947 and has 3 approved and 2 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
A synthetic opioid that is used as the hydrochloride. It is an opioid analgesic that is primarily a mu-opioid agonist. It has actions and uses similar to those of MORPHINE. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p1082-3)
See also: Methadone (has active moiety); Levomethadone hydrochloride (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CCC(=O)C(CC(C)N(C)C)(C1=CC=CC=C1)C2=CC=CC=C2.Cl
formula: C21H28ClNO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 345.9 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 7
Exact Mass: 345.1859422 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 345.1859422 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 20.3
Heavy Atom Count: 24
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 346
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

