Name: Methane
Text:
Methane is a colorless odorless gas. It is also known as marsh gas or methyl hydride. It is easily ignited. The vapors are lighter than air. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. It is used in making other chemicals and as a constituent of the fuel, natural gas.
Methane is a colorless odorless gas. It is also known as marsh gas or methyl hydride. It is easily ignited. The vapors are lighter than air. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. It is used in making other chemicals and as a constituent of the fuel, natural gas.
Methane, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid) is a colorless odorless liquid. Flammable. Water insoluble.
Natural gas, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid) appears as a flammable liquefied gaseous mixture of straight chain hydrocarbons, predominately methane.
Natural gas, [compressed] appears as a flammable gaseous mixture of straight chain hydrocarbons, predominately compressed methane.
Methane is a one-carbon compound in which the carbon is attached by single bonds to four hydrogen atoms. It is a colourless, odourless, non-toxic but flammable gas (b.p. -161℃). It has a role as a fossil fuel, a member of greenhouse gas and a bacterial metabolite. It is a mononuclear parent hydride, a one-carbon compound, a gas molecular entity and an alkane. It is a conjugate acid of a methanide.
Methane is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Methane has been reported in Dioon spinulosum, Stangeria eriopus, and other organisms with data available.
CHARCOAL, ACTIVATED is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 15 investigational indications.
Methane (CH4), is a gas produced by a group of colonic anaerobes, absorbed from the colon and excreted in expired air. As a result, breath CH4 excretion can be used as an indicator of the in situ activity of the methanogenic flora. All CH4 produced in human beings is a metabolic product of intestinal bacteria, and about 50% of CH4 produced in the gut is absorbed and excreted in expired air. Because there appears to be no catabolism of this gas by other colonic organisms or host cells, breath CH4 measurements provide a rapid, simple means of semi quantitatively assessing the ongoing in situ metabolism of the methanogenic flora. It could seem likely that the intracolonic activity of a variety of bacteria similarly might be assessed quantitatively via analysis of expired air. However, the application of this methodology has been confounded by the rapid catabolism of many volatile bacterial products by other bacteria or human tissue. A striking aspect of the studies of breath CH4 measurements is the enormous individual variations in the excretion of this gas. Virtually all children under 5 years of age and 66% of the adult population do not exhale appreciable quantities of CH4. The remaining 34% of the adult population has appreciable breath methane concentrations of up to 80 ppm (mean, 15.2 ppm; median, 11.8 ppm). On this basis the population can be divided into CH4 producers or nonproducers, although a more accurate term would be to define subjects as being low or high CH4 producers. The primary methanogen present in the human colon, Methanobrevibacter smithii, produces methane via a reaction that relies entirely on H2 produced by other organisms to reduce CO2 to CH4. Thus, breath CH4 concentrations might be expected to mirror breath H2 concentrations; however, the high levels of CH4 observed in the fasting state may result from H2 derived from endogenous rather than dietary substrates. A diverse assortment of conditions has been associated with a high prevalence of methane producers including diverticulosis, cystic fibrosis, high fasting serum cholesterol levels, encopresis in children, and aorto-iliac vascular disease, whereas obesity (measured as skin-fold thickness) was related inversely to methane production. The challenge that remains is to determine to what extent methanogens actively influence body physiology vs. simply serve as passive indicators of colonic function. (A11043)
The simplest saturated hydrocarbon. It is a colorless, flammable gas, slightly soluble in water. It is one of the chief constituents of natural gas and is formed in the decomposition of organic matter. (Grant and Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
See also: Methanide (is conjugate acid of); (C10-C30)Alkyl methacrylate ester (monomer of); Methane, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid) (narrower) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas
smiles: C
formula: CH4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 16.043 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 16.0313001276 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 16.0313001276 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

