Name: Molybdenum
Text:
Molybdenum is a chemical element with the symbol Mo. Pure molybdenum exists as a dark-gray or black powder with a metallic luster or as a silvery-white mass. It does not occur naturally in the pure metallic form. It is principally found as oxide or sulfide compounds. Therefore, almost all exposure is to a molybdenum compound rather than the actual metal alone. Important naturally occurring molybdenum compounds are the minerals molybdenite, powellite, wulfenite, ferrimolybdite, and ilsemannite. Molybdenum has a very high melting point and it is used widely in industry to make steel alloys.
MOLYBDENUM, a chemical element, is a hard, high-melting (refractory) high-density dark gray metal or black powder. Insoluble in water. Used to make structural alloys; used as a catalyst. Molybdenum dust and fumes can irritate the eyes and respiratory tract.
Molybdenum atom is a chromium group element atom. It has a role as a micronutrient.
Molybdenum is a chemical element with symbol Mo and atomic number 42. As it is not a naturally occuring free metal on Earth, molybdenum is found only in various oxidation states in minerals. Molybdenum is commonly used in metallurgy and other chemical applications however it has essential biological roles in organisms and microorganisms. It is an essential trace dietary element and acts as a critical cofactor in several molybdenum-dependent enzymes that are involved in important cellular reactions and pathways, including xanthine oxidoreductase. When complexed with Technetium Tc 99m, molybdenum is used as a radiopharmaceutical agent in diagonistic procedures.
Molybdenum is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Molybdenum is an element with atomic symbol Mo, atomic number 42, and atomic weight 95.94.
Molybdenum is a mineral with formula of Mo.
A metallic element with the atomic symbol Mo, atomic number 42, and atomic weight 95.95. It is an essential trace element, being a component of the enzymes xanthine oxidase, aldehyde oxidase, and nitrate reductase.
See also:  ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Health Hazard
smiles: [Mo]
formula: Mo
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 95.95 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 97.905404 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 97.905404 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

