Name: Monoethanolamine
Text:
Ethanolamine appears as a clear colorless liquid with an odor resembling that of ammonia. Flash point 185 °F. May attack copper, brass, and rubber. Corrosive to tissue. Moderately toxic. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion.
Ethanolamine is a member of the class of ethanolamines that is ethane with an amino substituent at C-1 and a hydroxy substituent at C-2, making it both a primary amine and a primary alcohol. It has a role as a human metabolite, an Escherichia coli metabolite and a mouse metabolite. It is a primary amine, a primary alcohol and a member of ethanolamines. It is a conjugate base of an ethanolaminium(1+).
A viscous, hygroscopic amino alcohol with an ammoniacal odor. It is widely distributed in biological tissue and is a component of lecithin. It is used as a surfactant, fluorimetric reagent, and to remove CO2 and H2S from natural gas and other gases.
Ethanolamine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Ethanolamine is a Sclerosing Agent. The mechanism of action of ethanolamine is as a Sclerosing Activity. The physiologic effect of ethanolamine is by means of Vascular Sclerosing Activity.
Ethanolamine has been reported in Microchloropsis, Glycine max, and other organisms with data available.
Monoethanolamine is a first generation monoethanolamine with antihistaminic property. Ethanolamine competes with free histamine for binding at the histamine (H)-1 receptor thereby acting as an inverse agonist that combines with and stabilizes the inactive form of the H1-receptor thereby shifting the equilibrium toward the inactive state. This leads to a reduction of the negative symptoms brought on by H1-receptor binding.
MONOETHANOLAMINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of II and has 1 investigational indication.
Ethanolamine is a viscous, hygroscopic amino alcohol with an ammoniacal odor. It is widely distributed in biological tissue and is a component of lecithin. It is used as a surfactant, fluorometric reagent, and to remove CO2 and H2S from natural gas and other gases.
Ethanolamine is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A viscous, hygroscopic amino alcohol with an ammoniacal odor. It is widely distributed in biological tissue and is a component of lecithin. It is used as a surfactant, fluorimetric reagent, and to remove CO2 and H2S from natural gas and other gases.
See also: Ethanolamine Oleate (has salt form); Ethanolamine Hydrochloride (has salt form); Ciclopirox Olamine (part of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: C(CO)N
formula: C2H7NO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 61.08 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 61.052763847 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 61.052763847 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 46.3
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 10
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

