Name: n-HEXANE
Text:
n-Hexane is a chemical made from crude oil. Pure n-Hexane is a colorless liquid with a slightly disagreeable odor. It is highly flammable, and its vapors can be explosive. Puren-Hexane is used in laboratories. Most of then-Hexane used in industry is mixed with similar chemicals called solvents. The major use for solvents containing n-Hexane is to extract vegetable oils from crops such as soybeans. These solvents are also used as cleaning agents in the printing, textile, furniture, and shoemaking industries. Certain kinds of special glues used in the roofing and shoe and leather industries also contain n-Hexane. Several consumer products containn-Hexane, such as gasoline, quick-drying glues used in various hobbies, and rubber cement. .
n-Hexane can cause male reproductive toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
N-hexane is a clear colorless liquids with a petroleum-like odor. Flash points -9 °F. Less dense than water and insoluble in water. Vapors heavier than air. Used as a solvent, paint thinner, and chemical reaction medium.
Hexane is an unbranched alkane containing six carbon atoms. It has a role as a non-polar solvent and a neurotoxin. It is an alkane and a volatile organic compound.
Hexane is used to extract edible oils from seeds and vegetables, as a special-use solvent, and as a cleaning agent. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure of humans to high levels of hexane causes mild central nervous system (CNS) effects, including dizziness, giddiness, slight nausea, and headache. Chronic (long- term) exposure to hexane in air is associated with polyneuropathy in humans, with numbness in the extremities, muscular weakness, blurred vision, headache, and fatigue observed. Neurotoxic effects have also been exhibited in rats. No information is available on the carcinogenic effects of hexane in humans or animals. EPA has classified hexane as a Group D, not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity.
n-HEXANE has been reported in Laetiporus sulphureus var. miniatus, Paeonia lactiflora, and other organisms with data available.
Hexane is found in citrus. Hexane is an extraction solvent used in food production Present in volatile fractions of various plant species e.g. apples, orange juice, guava fruit, roasted filberts, porcini (Boletus edulis), shiitake (Lentinus edodes), heated sweet potato and sage. Also present in scallops

Hexane has been shown to exhibit hepatoprotective, antibiotic, anti-nociceptive, anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial functions (A7812, A7813, A7814, A7815, A7816).

Hexane belongs to the family of Acyclic Alkanes. These are acyclic hydrocarbons consisting only of n carbon atoms and m hydrogen atoms where m=2*n + 2.
Six-carbon saturated hydrocarbon group of the methane series. Include isomers and derivatives. Various polyneuropathies are caused by hexane poisoning.
See also: Senofilcon C (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CCCCCC
formula: C6H14
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 86.18 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 3
Exact Mass: 86.109550447 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 86.109550447 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 6
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 12
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

