Name: Naled
Text:
Naled is a white solid that may be dissolved in a liquid organic carrier with a pungent odor. It is a water emulsifiable liquid. It is insoluble in water and sinks in water. It can cause illness by inhalation, skin absorption and/or ingestion. The primary hazard is the threat to the environment. Immediate steps should be taken to limit its spread to the environment. If it is in liquid form, it can easily penetrate the soil and contaminate groundwater and nearby streams. It is used as a pesticide.
Naled is an dialkyl phosphate resulting from the formal condensation of the acidic hydroxy group of dimethyl hydrogen phosphate with the alcoholic hydroxy group of 1,2-dibromo-2,2-dichloroethanol. An organophosphate insecticide, it is no longer approved for use within the European Union. It has a role as an EC 3.1.1.7 (acetylcholinesterase) inhibitor, an EC 3.1.1.8 (cholinesterase) inhibitor, an acaricide, an agrochemical, an antibacterial agent and an antifungal agent. It is a dialkyl phosphate, an organophosphate insecticide, an organochlorine compound and an organobromine compound.
(±)-Naled is an Agricultural insecticide, acaricide, bactericide and fungicide

(±)-Naled belongs to the family of Organophosphate Esters. These are organic compounds containing phosphoric acid ester functional group.
An organophosphate cholinesterase inhibitor that is used as an insecticide and as an acaricide.
Properties:safety: Irritant and Environmental Hazard
smiles: COP(=O)(OC)OC(C(Cl)(Cl)Br)Br
formula: C4H7Br2Cl2O4P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 380.78 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 379.78053 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 377.78258 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 44.8
Heavy Atom Count: 13
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 206
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

