Name: Netupitant
Text:
Netupitant is a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 2-[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-2-methylpropanoic acid with the secondary amino group of N-methyl-4-(2-methylphenyl)-6-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)pyridin-3-amine; an antiemetic used in combination with palonosetron hydrochloride (under the trade name Akynzeo) to treat nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing cancer chemotherapy. It has a role as an antiemetic and a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. It is a monocarboxylic acid amide, an organofluorine compound, an aminopyridine, a member of toluenes, a N-alkylpiperazine and a N-arylpiperazine.
Netupitant is an antiemitic drug approved by the FDA in October 2014 for use in combination with palonosetron for the prevention of acute and delayed vomiting and nausea associated with cancer chemotherapy including highly emetogenic chemotherapy. Netupitant is a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist. The combination drug is marketed by Eisai Inc. and Helsinn Therapeutics (U.S.) Inc. under the brand Akynzeo.
Netupitant is a Substance P/Neurokinin-1 Receptor Antagonist. The mechanism of action of netupitant is as a Neurokinin 1 Antagonist, and Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitor, and P-Glycoprotein Inhibitor, and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein Inhibitor.
Netupitant is a selective neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist with potential antiemetic activity. Netupitant competitively binds to and blocks the activity of the human substance P/NK1 receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), thereby inhibiting NK1-receptor binding of the endogenous tachykinin neuropeptide substance P (SP), which may result in the prevention of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). SP is found in neurons of vagal afferent fibers innervating the brain-stem nucleus tractus solitarii and the area postrema, which contains the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ), and may be elevated in response to chemotherapy. The NK-receptor is a G-protein receptor coupled to the inositol phosphate signal-transduction pathway and is found in both the nucleus tractus solitarii and the area postrema.
NETUPITANT is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2014 and is indicated for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting and has 1 investigational indication.
See also: Netupitant; palonosetron (component of); Netupitant; palonosetron hydrochloride (component of).
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=CC=CC=C1C2=CC(=NC=C2N(C)C(=O)C(C)(C)C3=CC(=CC(=C3)C(F)(F)F)C(F)(F)F)N4CCN(CC4)C
formula: C30H32F6N4O
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 578.6 g/mol
XLogP3: 6.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 10
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 578.24803063 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 578.24803063 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 39.7
Heavy Atom Count: 41
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 865
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

