Name: Nickel
Text:
Nickel is a very abundant natural element. Pure nickel is a hard, silvery-white metal. Nickel can be combined with other metals, such as iron, copper, chromium, and zinc, to form alloys. These alloys are used to make coins, jewelry, and items such as valves and heat exchangers. Most nickel is used to make stainless steel. Nickel can combine with other elements such as chlorine, sulfur, and oxygen to form nickel compounds. Many nickel compounds dissolve fairly easy in water and have a green color. Nickel compounds are used for nickel plating, to color ceramics, to make some batteries, and as substances known as catalysts that increase the rate of chemical reactions. Nickel is found in all soil and is emitted from volcanoes. Nickel is also found in meteorites and on the ocean floor. Nickel and its compounds have no characteristic odor or taste.
Nickel (Metallic) can cause cancer according to California Labor Code.
Lustrous, silvery, odorless metallic solid. Insoluble in water.
Raney Nickel catalyst, is extremely fine powdered nickel. It is grayish colored. Insoluble in water. Nickel catalyst is used to promote the chemical action in manufacturing synthetics and to process vegetable oil and petroleum. If exposed to air or moisture, it may become hot enough to ignite. It is insoluble in water and does not react with larger volumes of water.
Nickel atom is chemical element (nickel group element atom) with atomic number 28. It has a role as an epitope and a micronutrient. It is a nickel group element atom and a metal allergen.
Nickel is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Nickel occurs naturally in the environment at low levels. Nickel is an essential element in some animal species, and it has been suggested it may be essential for human nutrition. Nickel dermatitis, consisting of itching of the fingers, hands, and forearms, is the most common effect in humans from chronic (long-term) skin contact with nickel. Respiratory effects have also been reported in humans from inhalation exposure to nickel. Human and animal studies have reported an increased risk of lung and nasal cancers from exposure to nickel refinery dusts and nickel subsulfide. Animal studies of soluble nickel compounds (i.e., nickel carbonyl) have reported lung tumors. EPA has classified nickel refinery dust and nickel subsulfide as Group A, human carcinogens, and nickel carbonyl as a Group B2, probable human carcinogen.
Nickel is a Standardized Chemical Allergen. The physiologic effect of nickel is by means of Increased Histamine Release, and Cell-mediated Immunity.
Nickel has been reported in Ludwigia repens with data available.
Nickel is an element with atomic symbol Ni, atomic number 28, and atomic weight 58.69.
Nickel is a mineral with formula of Ni. The corresponding IMA (International Mineralogical Association) number is IMA1966-039. The IMA symbol is Ni.
A trace element with the atomic symbol Ni, atomic number 28, and atomic weight 58.69. It is a cofactor of the enzyme UREASE.
See also: Tobacco Leaf (part of); Metal catalyst, wetted (related); Nickel metal and other compounds (as Ni) (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: [Ni]
formula: Ni
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 58.693 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 57.935342 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 57.935342 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

