Name: Nitric Acid
Text:
Nitric acid, other than red fuming appears as a pale yellow to reddish brown liquid with reddish brown vapors and a suffocating odor. Very toxic by inhalation. Corrosive to metals or tissue. Accelerates the burning of combustible material and may cause ignition of combustible materials upon contact. Prolonged exposure to low concentrations or short term exposure to high concentrations may result in adverse health effects. Density 12 lb / gal.
Nitric acid, red fuming appears as a pale yellow to reddish brown liquid generating red-brown fumes and having a suffocating odor. Very toxic by inhalation. Corrosive to metals or tissue. Prolonged exposure to low concentrations or short term exposure to high concentrations may result in adverse health effects.   Rate of onset: Immediate  Persistence: Hours - days  Odor threshold: ~1 ppm  Source/use/other hazard: Used in many industries; Very corrosive to skin/mucous membranes as well as metals & other materials.
Nitric acid is a nitrogen oxoacid of formula HNO3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms. It has a role as a protic solvent and a reagent. It is a conjugate acid of a nitrate.
Nitric Acid has been reported in Bombax ceiba, Tetradium glabrifolium, and other organisms with data available.
NITRIC ACID is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 8 investigational indications.
Nitric acid (HNO3), also known as aqua fortis and spirit of niter, is a highly corrosive mineral acid. The pure compound is colorless, but older samples tend to acquire a yellow cast due to decomposition into oxides of nitrogen and water. Most commercially available nitric acid has a concentration of 68%. When the solution contains more than 86% HNO3, it is referred to as fuming nitric acid. Nitric acid is the primary reagent used for nitration - the addition of a nitro group, typically to an organic molecule. The main industrial use of nitric acid is for the production of fertilizers. Nitric acid is neutralized with ammonia to give ammonium nitrate. The other main applications are for the production of explosives, nylon precursors, and specialty organic compounds.
Nitric acid (HNO3). A colorless liquid that is used in the manufacture of inorganic and organic nitrates and nitro compounds for fertilizers, dye intermediates, explosives, and many different organic chemicals. Continued exposure to vapor may cause chronic bronchitis; chemical pneumonitis may occur. (From Merck Index, 11th ed)
See also: Arginine nitrate (is active moiety of); Nitrogen trioxide (annotation moved to) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Corrosive and Acute Toxic
smiles: [N+](=O)(O)[O-]
formula: HNO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 63.013 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 62.995642894 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 62.995642894 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 66.1
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 24.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

