Name: Nitrogen
Text:
Nitrogen appears as a colorless odorless gas. Noncombustible and nontoxic. Makes up the major portion of the atmosphere, but will not support life by itself. Used in food processing, in purging air conditioning and refrigeration systems, and in pressurizing aircraft tires. May cause asphyxiation by displacement of air. Under prolonged exposure to fire or heat containers may rupture violently and rocket.
Nitrogen, refrigerated liquid (cryogenic liquid) appears as colorless odorless liquid. Very cold. Contact may cause frostbite. Nontoxic. Under prolonged exposure to heat or fire the container may rupture violently and rocket. Used to freeze foods, to preserve whole blood and other biologicals, and as a coolant.
Dinitrogen is an elemental molecule consisting of two trivalently-bonded nitrogen atoms. It has a role as a member of food packaging gas and a food propellant. It is a diatomic nitrogen, a gas molecular entity and an elemental molecule. It is a conjugate base of a diazynium.
Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. At room temperature, it is a transparent, odorless diatomic gas.  Liquid nitrogen is used principally in cryotherapy for removal of diseased skin. Liquid nitrogen helps in removal of skin lesions through necrosis, which results from the freezing and thawing of cells. Cryotherapy usually done in doctors' office. Also, nitrogen is very famous component in fertilizers and energy-stores.
Nitrogen is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Nitrogen has been reported in Plantago rhodosperma with data available.
Nitrogen is an element with atomic symbol N, atomic number 7, and atomic weight 14.01.
NITROGEN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2015 and has 15 investigational indications.
nitrogen is a mineral.
An element with the atomic symbol N, atomic number 7, and atomic weight [14.00643; 14.00728]. Nitrogen exists as a diatomic gas and makes up about 78% of the earth's atmosphere by volume. It is a constituent of proteins and nucleic acids and found in all living cells.
See also: Boron nitride (monomer of); Carbon Dioxide; NITROGEN (component of); Helium; nitrogen; oxygen (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Compressed Gas
smiles: N#N
formula: N2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 28.014 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 28.006148008 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 28.006148008 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 47.6
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

