Name: Oxacillin
Text:
Oxacillin is a penicillin antibiotic carrying a 5-methyl-3-phenylisoxazole-4-carboxamide group at position 6beta. It has a role as an antibacterial agent and an antibacterial drug. It is a conjugate acid of an oxacillin(1-).
An antibiotic similar to [flucloxacillin] used in resistant staphylococci infections.
Oxacillin is a Penicillin-class Antibacterial.
Oxacillin is a parenteral, second generation penicillin antibiotic that is used to treat moderate-to-severe, penicillinase-resistant staphylococcal infections. Oxacillin has been linked to rare instances of clinically apparent, idiosyncratic liver injury, but it more commonly causes transient elevations in serum aminotransferases without jaundice.
Oxacillin has been reported in Bos taurus, Cordyceps farinosa, and Liquidambar formosana with data available.
Oxacillin is a semisynthetic penicillinase-resistant and acid-stable penicillin with an antimicrobial activity. Oxacillin binds to penicillin-binding proteins in the bacterial cell wall, thereby blocking the synthesis of peptidoglycan, a critical component of the bacterial cell wall. This leads to inhibition of cell growth and causes cell lysis.
Oxacillin Sodium is the sodium salt form of oxacillin, a semisynthetic penicillinase-resistant and acid-stable penicillin with an antimicrobial activity. Oxacillin binds to penicillin-binding proteins in the bacterial cell wall, thereby blocking the synthesis of peptidoglycan, a critical component of the bacterial cell wall. This leads to inhibition of cell growth and causes cell lysis.
OXACILLIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1971 and is indicated for infection and bacterial disease and has 5 investigational indications.
An antibiotic similar to FLUCLOXACILLIN used in resistant staphylococci infections.
See also: Oxacillin Sodium (has salt form); Oxacillin benzathine (is active moiety of).
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=C(C(=NO1)C2=CC=CC=C2)C(=O)N[C@H]3[C@@H]4N(C3=O)[C@H](C(S4)(C)C)C(=O)O
formula: C19H19N3O5S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 401.4 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 4
Exact Mass: 401.10454189 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 401.10454189 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 138
Heavy Atom Count: 28
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 680
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 3
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

