Name: Oxygen
Text:
Oxygen is a colorless, odorless and tasteless gas. It will support life. It is noncombustible, but will actively support the burning of combustible materials. Some materials that will not burn in air will burn in oxygen. Materials that burn in air will burn more vigorously in oxygen. As a non-liquid gas it is shipped at pressures of 2000 psig or above. Pure oxygen is nonflammable. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. Oxygen is used in the production of synthesis gas from coal, for resuscitation and as an inhalant.
Oxygen is a colorless, odorless and tasteless gas. It will support life. It is noncombustible, but will actively support the burning of combustible materials. Some materials that will not burn in air will burn in oxygen. Materials that burn in air will burn more vigorously in oxygen. As a non-liquid gas it is shipped at pressures of 2000 psig or above. Pure oxygen is nonflammable. Under prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat the containers may rupture violently and rocket. Oxygen is used in the production of synthesis gas from coal, for resuscitation and as an inhalant.
Dioxygen is a diatomic oxygen, a gas molecular entity and an elemental molecule. It has a role as an anti-inflammatory drug, a reagent, a nutrient, a micronutrient, an oxidising agent, a human metabolite, a member of food packaging gas and a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite. It is a conjugate base of a hydridodioxygen(1+).
Oxygen is an element displayed by the symbol O, and atomic number 8.  It is an essential element for human survival. Decreased oxygen levels may be treated with medical oxygen therapy. Treatment with oxygen serves to increase blood oxygen levels and also exerts a secondary effect of decreasing blood flow resistance in the diseased lung, leading to decreased cardiovascular workload in an attempt to oxygenate the lungs. Oxygen therapy is used to treat emphysema, pneumonia, some heart disorders (congestive heart failure), some disorders that cause increased pulmonary artery pressure, and any disease that impairs the body's ability to take up and use gaseous oxygen. Higher level of oxygen than ambient air (hyperoxia) can be introduced under normobaric or hyperbaric conditions.
Oxygen is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Oxygen has been reported in Euonymus hamiltonianus, Acacia kempeana, and Abelmoschus esculentus with data available.
Oxygen is an element with atomic symbol O, atomic number 8, and atomic weight 16.
OXYGEN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2006 and has 82 investigational indications.
oxygen is a mineral.
oxygen is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
An element with atomic symbol O, atomic number 8, and atomic weight [15.99903; 15.99977]. It is the most abundant element on earth and essential for respiration.
See also: Helium; Oxygen (component of); Carbon Dioxide; Oxygen (component of); Helium; nitrogen; oxygen (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Compressed Gas
smiles: O=O
formula: O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 31.999 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 31.989829239 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 31.989829239 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 34.1
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

