Name: Phenobarbital
Text:
Phenobarbital can cause cancer according to The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).
Phenobarbital appears as odorless white crystalline powder or colorless crystals. A saturated aqueous solution is acid to litmus (approximately pH 5). Slightly bitter taste. (NTP, 1992)
Phenobarbital is a member of the class of barbiturates, the structure of which is that of barbituric acid substituted at C-5 by ethyl and phenyl groups. It has a role as an anticonvulsant, a sedative, an excitatory amino acid antagonist and a drug allergen.
Phenobarbital is a DEA Schedule IV controlled substance. Substances in the DEA Schedule IV have a low potential for abuse relative to substances in Schedule III. It is a Depressants substance.
A barbituric acid derivative that acts as a nonselective central nervous system depressant. It promotes binding to inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid subtype receptors, and modulates chloride currents through receptor channels. It also inhibits glutamate induced depolarizations.
Phenobarbital is a barbiturate that is widely used as a sedative and an antiseizure medication. Phenobarbital has been linked to rare instances of idiosyncratic liver injury that can be severe and even fatal.
Phenobarbital is a long-acting barbituric acid derivative with antipsychotic property. Phenobarbital binds to and activates the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor, thereby mimicking the inhibitory actions of GABA in the brain.  The activation effects of the phenobarbital-receptor-ionophore complex include increased frequency of chloride channel openings, membrane hyperpolarization and ultimately synaptic inhibition and decreased neuronal excitability. In addition, this agent inhibits glutamate induced depolarization.
PHENOBARBITAL is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2022 and is indicated for seizure and epilepsy and has 9 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
Phenobarbital is only found in individuals that have used or taken this drug. It is a barbituric acid derivative that acts as a nonselective central nervous system depressant. It promotes binding to inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid subtype receptors, and modulates chloride currents through receptor channels. It also inhibits glutamate induced depolarizations. [PubChem] Phenobarbital acts on GABAA receptors, increasing synaptic inhibition. This has the effect of elevating seizure threshold and reducing the spread of seizure activity from a seizure focus. Phenobarbital may also inhibit calcium channels, resulting in a decrease in excitatory transmitter release. The sedative-hypnotic effects of phenobarbital are likely the result of its effect on the polysynaptic midbrain reticular formation, which controls CNS arousal.
A barbituric acid derivative that acts as a nonselective central nervous system depressant. It potentiates GAMMA-AMINOBUTYRIC ACID action on GABA-A RECEPTORS, and modulates chloride currents through receptor channels. It also inhibits glutamate induced depolarizations.
See also: Phenobarbital Sodium (has salt form); Barbexaclone (is active moiety of); Phenobarbital Calcium (has salt form) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CCC1(C(=O)NC(=O)NC1=O)C2=CC=CC=C2
formula: C12H12N2O3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 232.23 g/mol
XLogP3: 1.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 232.08479225 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 232.08479225 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 75.3
Heavy Atom Count: 17
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 339
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

