Name: Phosphoric Acid
Text:
Phosphoric acid appears as a clear colorless liquid or transparent crystalline solid. The pure solid melts at 42.35 °C and has a density of 1.834 g / cm3. Liquid is usually an 85% aqueous solution. Shipped as both a solid and liquid. Corrosive to metals and tissue. Used in making fertilizers and detergents and in food processing.
Phosphoric acid is a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom. It has a role as a solvent, a human metabolite, an algal metabolite, a fertilizer and a NMR chemical shift reference compound. It is a conjugate acid of a dihydrogenphosphate and a phosphate ion.
Phosphoric Acid is a colorless, odorless phosphorus-containing inorganic acid. Phosphoric acid is a sequestering agent which binds many divalent cations, including Fe++, Cu++, Ca++, and Mg++.
Phosphoric Acid has been reported in Angelica gigas, Daphnia pulex, and other organisms with data available.
Phosphoric Acid is a colorless, odorless phosphorus-containing inorganic acid. Phosphoric acid is a sequestering agent which binds many divalent cations, including Fe++, Cu++, Ca++, and Mg++. Phosphoric acid is used in dentistry and orthodontics as an etching solution, to clean and roughen the surfaces of teeth where dental appliances or fillings will be placed. In addition, phosphoric acid is a constituent in bone and teeth, and plays a role in many metabolic processes.
PHOSPHORIC ACID is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 2 investigational indications.
Phosphoric acid, also known as orthophosphoric acid or phosphoric(V) acid, is a mineral acid with the chemical formula H3PO4. Alternatively, orthophosphoric acid molecules can combine with themselves to form a variety of compounds referred to as phosphoric acids in a more general way. For a discussion of these, see Phosphoric acids and Phosphates. Appears to exist only as a food additive and produced synthetically. --Wikipedia.
See also: Potassium Metaphosphate (monomer of); Metaphosphoric acid (monomer of); Polyestradiol Phosphate (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive
smiles: OP(=O)(O)O
formula: H3O4P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 97.995 g/mol
XLogP3: -2.1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 97.97689557 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 97.97689557 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 77.8
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 49.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

