Name: Phosphorus
Text:
Phosphorus, amorphous (red or violet) appears as red or dark crystals or powder. Not white phosphorus but rather one of the numerous less reactive polymorphic forms of the element. Not soluble in water.
White phosphorus is used in the manufacture of munitions, pyrotechnics, explosives, smoke bombs, in artificial fertilizers, and rodenticides. White phosphorus is extremely toxic to humans, while other forms of phosphorus are much less toxic. Acute (short-term) oral exposure to high levels of white phosphorus in humans is characterized by three stages: the first stage consists of gastrointestinal effects; the second stage is symptom-free and lasts about two days; the third stage consists of a rapid decline in condition with gastrointestinal effects, plus severe effects on the kidneys, liver, cardiovascular system, and central nervous system (CNS). Inhalation exposure has resulted in respiratory tract irritation and coughing in humans. Chronic (long-term) exposure to white phosphorus in humans results in necrosis of the jaw, termed "phossy jaw." EPA has classified white phosphorus as a Group D, not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity.
Phosphorus has been reported in Artemia salina, Phytelephas aequatorialis, and Theobroma cacao with data available.
Phosphorus is an element with atomic symbol P, atomic number 15, and atomic weight 30.97.
phosphorus is a mineral.
Phosphorus is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A non-metal element that has the atomic symbol P, atomic number 15, and atomic weight 31. It is an essential element that takes part in a broad variety of biochemical reactions.
See also: Broccoli (part of); Physalis alkekengi fruit (active moiety of); Aloe; phosphorus; silicon dioxide; sulfur (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [P]
formula: P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 30.97376200 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 30.973761998 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 30.973761998 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

