Name: Platinum
Text:
Silvery, whitish-gray, malleable, ductile metal. Mp: 1772 °C; bp: 2187 °C. Density: 21.45 g cm-3 at room conditions (very dense). Also shipped as a finely divided powder (platinum black), as a sponge, and as particles deposited on a supporting material such as alumina. Has strong catalytic activity in these forms; finely divided platinum can be dangerous to handle in the vicinity of other chemicals on this account. Used platinum catalysts are particularly dangerous and can be explosive.
Platinum is a nickel group element atom and a platinum group metal atom.
Platinum is under investigation for the treatment of Metastatic Breast Cancer, Non-small Cell Lung Cancer, Gastric Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma, Colorectal Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma, and Pancreatic Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma, among others. Platinum has been investigated for the treatment and supportive care of Ovarian Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, Peritoneal Primary Cancer, Non Small Cell Lung Cancer, and Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma, among others.
Platinum is an element with atomic symbol Pt, atomic number 78, and atomic weight 195.09.
Platinum is a mineral with formula of Pt. The IMA symbol is Pt.
A heavy, soft, whitish metal, resembling tin, with atomic number 78, atomic weight 195.084, symbol Pt. It is used in manufacturing equipment for laboratory and industrial use. It occurs as a black powder (platinum black) and as a spongy substance (spongy platinum) and may have been known in Pliny's time as alutiae.
See also: Platinum soluble salts (annotation moved to); Platinum, soluble salts (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [Pt]
formula: Pt
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 195.08 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 194.964794 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 194.964794 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

