Name: Potassium
Text:
Potassium is a soft silvery metal though normally grayish white due to oxidation.
Potassium, metal alloys is potassium mixed with some other metal, usually sodium. It is a liquid under normal conditions. It reacts vigorously with water to form potassium hydroxide, a corrosive material and hydrogen, a flammable gas. The heat from this reaction may be sufficient to ignite the hydrogen. Potassium alloy may ignite spontaneously in contact with air. Once ignited, potassium burns quite violently. It is used as a heat exchange fluid.
Potassium atom is an alkali metal atom. It has a role as a macronutrient and a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite.
Potassium is an essential nutrient, like [Calcium] and [Magnesium]. It was identified as a shortfall nutrient by the 2015-2020 Advisory Committee of Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Many conditions and diseases interfere with normal body potassium balance, and underconsumption of potassium is one example. Hypokalemia (low potassium) or hyperkalemia (high potassium) may result, manifesting as various signs and symptoms. Some examples of potassium-related complications include life-threatening arrhythmia, neuromuscular dysfunction, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.  Various pharmacological preparations have been formulated to replenish potassium. They are available in an assortment of tablet, injection, and other forms, depending on the setting and condition being treated. Potassium is often a key ingredient for intravenous fluids, given to patients in clinical settings for rehydration, nutrition, and replenishment of electrolytes. Examples of potassium formulations include potassium citrate, potassium chloride, and potassium with dextrose and sodium chloride.
Potassium is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Potassium has been reported in Equisetum arvense, Artemia salina, and other organisms with data available.
Potassium is an element with atomic symbol K, atomic number 19, and atomic weight 39.10.
potassium is a mineral.
potassium atom is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
An element in the alkali group of metals with an atomic symbol K, atomic number 19, and atomic weight 39.10. It is the chief cation in the intracellular fluid of muscle and other cells. Potassium ion is a strong electrolyte that plays a significant role in the regulation of fluid volume and maintenance of the WATER-ELECTROLYTE BALANCE.
See also: Broccoli (part of).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive
smiles: [K]
formula: K
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 39.0983 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 38.96370648 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 38.96370648 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

