Name: Potassium Nitrate
Text:
Potassium nitrate appears as a white to dirty gray crystalline solid. Water soluble. Noncombustible, but accelerates the burning of combustible materials. If large quantities are involved in fire or the combustible material is finely divided an explosion may result. May explode under prolonged exposure to heat or fire. Toxic oxides of nitrogen are produced in fires. Used in solid propellants, explosives, fertilizers.
Potassium nitrate is the inorganic nitrate salt of potassium. It has a role as a fertilizer. It is a potassium salt and an inorganic nitrate salt.
Potassium nitrate is an inorganic salt with a chemical formula of KNO3. It is a natural source of nitrate and has been used as a constituent for several different purposes, including food preservatives, fertilizers, tree stump removal, rocket propellants, and fireworks. Potassium nitrate is a common active ingredient in toothpaste, exerting an anti-sensitivity action. It provides increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact.  In addition, potassium nitrate is used as a diuretic in pigs, cattle, and horses. It is administered orally doses up to 30 g per animal per day.
Potassium Nitrate is a crystalline salt, KNO3; a strong oxidizer used especially in making gunpowder, as a fertilizer, and in medicine.
POTASSIUM NITRATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 4 investigational indications.
Potassium nitrate is a nitrate of potassium. It is used as an oxidizing component of gunpowder, a preservative, a fertilizer, and can also be found in some toothpastes. Nitrite is a toxic compound known to cause methemoglobinemia. (L1137,  L1634)
See also: Potassium Nitrate; Silver Nitrate (component of); Activated charcoal; potassium nitrate; sulfur (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Irritant
smiles: [N+](=O)([O-])[O-].[K+]
formula: KNO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 101.103 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 100.95152435 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 100.95152435 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 62.9
Heavy Atom Count: 5
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 18.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

