Name: Potassium Dichromate
Text:
Potassium bichromate appears as orange red crystals. Denser than water and soluble in water. No distinctive odor. May severely irritate the eyes and respiratory tract. Avoid contact with organic materials. Noncombustible. Used in pyrotehnic displays with tungsten and iron.
Potassium dichromate is a potassium salt that is the dipotassium salt of dichromic acid. It has a role as an oxidising agent, an allergen and a sensitiser. It contains a dichromate(2-).
Potassium Dichromate is an orange to red colored, crystalline, inorganic compound that emits toxic chromium fumes upon heating. Potassium dichromate is highly corrosive and is a strong oxidizing agent. This substance is used in wood preservatives, in the manufacture of pigments and in photomechanical processes, but is mainly replaced by sodium dichromate. Potassium dichromate primarily affects the respiratory tract causing ulcerations, shortness of breath, bronchitis, pneumonia and asthma but can also affect the gastrointestinal tract, liver, kidneys and immune system. This substance is a known human carcinogen and is associated with an increased risk of developing lung cancer and cancer of the sinonasal cavity. (NCI05)
Potassium dichromate is a chemical compound of potassium and hexavalent chromium. It is a common inorganic chemical reagent and is also used in photography and wood treatment. It is found naturally as the mineral lopezite. Hexavalent chromium refers to chemical compounds that contain the element chromium in the +6 oxidation state. Chromium(VI) is more toxic than other oxidation states of the chromium atom because of its greater ability to enter cells and higher redox potential. (L16, L55)
Chromic acid (H2Cr2O7), dipotassium salt. A compound having bright orange-red crystals and used in dyeing, staining, tanning leather, as bleach, oxidizer, depolarizer for dry cells, etc. Medically it has been used externally as an astringent, antiseptic, and caustic. When taken internally, it is a corrosive poison.
See also: Dichromate ion (has active moiety); Eucalyptus globulus leaf; potassium dichromate (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [O-][Cr](=O)(=O)O[Cr](=O)(=O)[O-].[K+].[K+]
formula: K2Cr2O7
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 294.18 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 293.772825 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 293.772825 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 124
Heavy Atom Count: 11
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 194
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 3
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

