Name: Progesterone
Text:
Progesterone can cause cancer according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Progesterone is a white powder. Melting point 121 °C. Stable in air. Insoluble in water. A female sex hormone. Low toxicity.
Progesterone is a C21-steroid hormone in which a pregnane skeleton carries oxo substituents at positions 3 and 20 and is unsaturated at C(4)-C(5). As a hormone, it is involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy and embryogenesis of humans and other species. It has a role as a contraceptive drug, a progestin, a progesterone receptor agonist, a human metabolite and a mouse metabolite. It is a 20-oxo steroid, a 3-oxo-Delta(4) steroid and a C21-steroid hormone. It derives from a hydride of a pregnane.
Progesterone is a hormone that occurs naturally in females, and is essential for endometrial receptivity, embryo implantation, and the successful establishment of pregnancy. A low progesterone concentration or an insufficient response to progesterone can cause infertility and pregnancy loss. Progesterone is used in various contraceptive preparations to prevent ovulation and fertilization, as well as in other formulations to promote and support pregnancy.  Please see [Medroxyprogesterone acetate], [Megestrol acetate], [Dydrogesterone] and [Hydroxyprogesterone] entries for information on various other forms of progesterone.  Pharmaceutical progesterone is made from a plant source as a starting material and is chemically identical to progesterone of human ovarian origin. Progesterone is available in gelatinized capsule form, vaginal gel form, tablet form, vaginal insert form, and injection form, all used for various purposes.
Progesterone is a Progesterone.
Progesterone has been reported in Abedus herberti, Cota palaestina, and other organisms with data available.
Therapeutic Progesterone is the therapeutic form of the naturally occurring hormone progesterone.  Progesterone binds to the progesterone receptor, resulting in dissociation of heat shock proteins, receptor phosphorylation, and transcription activation through direct or indirect interaction with transcription factors.  This agent exerts inhibitory effects on estrogens by decreasing the number of estrogen receptors and increasing its metabolism to inactive metabolites.  Progesterone induces secretory changes in the endometrium, decreases uterine contractility during pregnancy, and maintains pregnancy.
Progesterone is produced in the corpus luteum and by the placenta, as an antagonist of estrogens. Promotes proliferation of uterine mucosa and the implantation of the blastocyst, prevents further follicular development.
Progestin is any synthetic steroid hormone that resembles the naturally occurring hormone and has progesterone-like properties.
PROGESTERONE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1976 and has 3 approved and 41 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
The major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the corpus luteum and the placenta. Progesterone acts on the uterus, the mammary glands and the brain. It is required in embryo implantation, pregnancy maintenance, and the development of mammary tissue for milk production. Progesterone, converted from pregnenolone, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of gonadal steroid hormones and adrenal corticosteroids. Progesterone is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle, pregnancy (supports gestation) and embryogenesis of humans and other species. Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestagens, and is the major naturally occurring human progestagen. During implantation and gestation, progesterone appears to decrease the maternal immune response to allow for the acceptance of the pregnancy. Progesterone decreases contractility of the uterine smooth muscle. The fetus metabolizes placental progesterone in the production of adrenal mineralo- and glucosteroids. A drop in progesterone levels is possibly one step that facilitates the onset of labor. In addition progesterone inhibits lactation during pregnancy. The fall in progesterone levels following delivery is one of the triggers for milk production.
The major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the CORPUS LUTEUM and the PLACENTA. Progesterone acts on the UTERUS, the MAMMARY GLANDS and the BRAIN. It is required in EMBRYO IMPLANTATION; PREGNANCY maintenance, and the development of mammary tissue for MILK production. Progesterone, converted from PREGNENOLONE, also serves as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of GONADAL STEROID HORMONES and adrenal CORTICOSTEROIDS.
See also: Estradiol; progesterone (component of); Estradiol Benzoate; Progesterone (component of); Estrone; progesterone (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CC(=O)[C@H]1CC[C@@H]2[C@@]1(CC[C@H]3[C@H]2CCC4=CC(=O)CC[C@]34C)C
formula: C21H30O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 314.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 3.9
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 314.224580195 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 314.224580195 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 34.1
Heavy Atom Count: 23
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 589
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 6
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

