Name: Psilocybin
Text:
Psilocybin is a tryptamine alkaloid that is N,N-dimethyltryptamine carrying an additional phosphoryloxy substituent at position 4. The major hallucinogenic alkaloid isolated from Psilocybe mushrooms (also known as Teonanacatl or "magic mushrooms"). It has a role as a hallucinogen, a fungal metabolite, a prodrug and a serotonergic agonist. It is a tryptamine alkaloid, a tertiary amino compound and an organic phosphate. It is functionally related to a psilocin. It is a conjugate acid of a psilocybin(1-).
Psilocybin is a DEA Schedule I controlled substance. Substances in the DEA Schedule I have no currently accepted medical use in the United States, a lack of accepted safety for use under medical supervision, and a high potential for abuse. It is a Hallucinogenic substances substance.
Psilocybin has been investigated for the treatment of Anxiety and Stage IV Melanoma. In November, 2019, it was granted Breakthrough Therapy status by the FDA.
Psilocybine has been reported in Gymnopilus spectabilis, Deconica pseudobullacea, and other organisms with data available.
Psilocybine is a tryptamine alkaloid, isolated from various genera of fungi including the genus Psilocybe, with hallucinogenic, anxiolytic, and psychoactive activities. In vivo, psilocybine is rapidly dephosphorylated into the active compound psilocin, which activates serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) receptors in the central nervous system (CNS), mimicking the effects of serotonin.
PSILOCYBINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 24 investigational indications.
Psilocybin (pronounced /ˌsaɪlɵˈsaɪbɪn/ SYE-lə-SYE-bin) (also known as psilocybine) is a hallucinogenic (entheogenic, psychedelic) indole of the tryptamine family, found in psilocybin mushrooms. It is present in hundreds of species of fungi, including those of the genus Psilocybe, such as Psilocybe cubensis and Psilocybe semilanceata, but also reportedly isolated from a dozen or so other genera. Psilocybin mushrooms are commonly called "sacred mushrooms," "magic mushrooms," or more simply "shrooms". Possession, and in some cases usage, of psilocybin or psilocin has been outlawed in most countries across the globe. Proponents of its usage consider it to be an entheogen and a tool to supplement various types of practices for transcendence, including in meditation, psychonautics, and psychedelic psychotherapy. The intensity and duration of entheogenic effects of psilocybin mushrooms are highly variable, depending on species/cultivar of mushrooms, dosage, individual physiology, and set and setting. Though psilocybin rarely attracts much attention from mainstream media, when it does the focus tends to be on the recreational use, generally excluding any other uses of the drug. (L1143)
The major of two hallucinogenic components of the sacred Teonanacatl mushrooms (see PSILOCYBE), the other component being PSILOCIN.
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Irritant
smiles: CN(C)CCC1=CNC2=C1C(=CC=C2)OP(=O)(O)O
formula: C12H17N2O4P
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 284.25 g/mol
XLogP3: -1.6
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 5
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 284.09259403 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 284.09259403 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 85.8
Heavy Atom Count: 19
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 347
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

