Name: Pyrimethamine
Text:
Pyrimethamine can cause developmental toxicity according to state or federal government labeling requirements.
Pyrimethamine is an odorless white crystalline powder. Tasteless. An antimalarial drug.
Pyrimethamine is an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidine-2,4-diamine which is substituted at position 5 by a p-chlorophenyl group and at position 6 by an ethyl group. It is a folic acid antagonist used as an antimalarial or with a sulfonamide to treat toxoplasmosis. It has a role as an antimalarial, an EC 1.5.1.3 (dihydrofolate reductase) inhibitor and an antiprotozoal drug. It is an aminopyrimidine and a member of monochlorobenzenes.
Pyrimethamine is an antiparasitic prescription medicine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of Toxoplasma gondiiinfection (toxoplasmosis). Pyrimethamine is usually used together with a sulfonamide (sulfa medicine) to treat toxoplasmosis.
Toxoplasmosis of the brain (also called Toxoplasma gondii encephalitis) can be&nbsp;an opportunistic infection (OI) of HIV.
One of the folic acid antagonists that is used as an antimalarial or with a sulfonamide to treat toxoplasmosis.
Pyrimethamine is a Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitor Antimalarial. The mechanism of action of pyrimethamine is as a Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitor.
Pyrimethamine has been reported in Acronychia pubescens with data available.
Pyrimethamine is a synthetic derivative of ethyl-pyrimidine with potent antimalarial properties.  Pyrimethamine is a competitive inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR).  DHFR is a key enzyme in the redox cycle for production of tetrahydrofolate, a cofactor that is required for the synthesis of DNA and proteins.  This agent is often used in combination with other antimalarials for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria. (NCI04)
PYRIMETHAMINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1953 and is indicated for toxoplasmosis and malaria and has 20 investigational indications.
One of the folic acid antagonists that is used as an antimalarial or with a sulfonamide to treat toxoplasmosis. 
One of the FOLIC ACID ANTAGONISTS that is used as an antimalarial or with a sulfonamide to treat toxoplasmosis.
See also: Pyrimethamine; sulfadoxine (component of); Pyrimethamine pamoate (is active moiety of); Pyrimethamine; Sulfadiazine Sodium (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CCC1=C(C(=NC(=N1)N)N)C2=CC=C(C=C2)Cl
formula: C12H13ClN4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 248.71 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 248.0828741 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 248.0828741 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 77.8
Heavy Atom Count: 17
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 243
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

