Name: Resorcinol
Text:
Resorcinol is a very white crystalline solid that becomes pink on exposure to light if not completely pure. Burns although ignition is difficult. Density approximately 1.28 g / cm3. Irritating to skin and eyes. Toxic by skin absorption. Used to make plastics and pharmaceuticals.
Resorcinol is a benzenediol that is benzene dihydroxylated at positions 1 and 3. It has a role as an erythropoietin inhibitor and a sensitiser. It is a benzenediol, a member of resorcinols and a phenolic donor.
Resorcinol is a 1,3-isomer (or meta-isomer) of benzenediol with the formula C6H4(OH)2. It is used as an antiseptic and disinfectant in topical pharmaceutical products in the treatment of skin disorders and infections such as acne, seborrheic dermatitis, eczema, psoriasis, corns, calluses, and warts. It exerts a keratolytic activity. Resorcinol works by helping to remove hard, scaly, or roughened skin.  Although it is primarily indicated for use as a topical application, resorcinol also possesses a well-documented anti-thyroidal activity that is generally not relied upon for any kind of formal therapeutic indication.
Resorcinol has been reported in Dothiorella vidmadera, Maclura pomifera, and other organisms with data available.
RESORCINOL is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and is indicated for eye infection and acne.
1,3-Benzenediol is found in alcoholic beverages. 1,3-Benzenediol is present in roasted barley, cane molasses, coffee, beer and wine. 1,3-Benzenediol is a flavouring ingredient1,3-Benzenediol belongs to the family of Resorcinols. These are compounds containing a resorcinol moiety, which is a benzene ring bearing two hydrocyl groups at positions 1 and 3.
See also: Resorcinol; Sulfur (component of); Benzocaine; resorcinol (component of); Petrolatum; resorcinol (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: C1=CC(=CC(=C1)O)O
formula: C6H6O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 110.11 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.8
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 110.036779430 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 110.036779430 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 40.5
Heavy Atom Count: 8
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 64.9
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

