Name: Rolapitant
Text:
Rolapitant is an azaspiro compound that is 1,7-diazaspiro[4.5]decan-2-one carrying additional phenyl and 1-{[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethoxy}methyl substituents at position 8. Used (in the form of the hydrochloride hydrate) for the prevention of delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. It has a role as an antiemetic and a neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. It is an ether, an azaspiro compound, a member of pyrrolidin-2-ones, a member of piperidines and an organofluorine compound. It is a conjugate base of a rolapitant(1+).
Rolapitant is a potent, highly selective, long-acting Neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist approved for the prevention of delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) in adults. Delayed-phase CINV typically occurs >24 hours after chemotherapy treatment and is principally mediated by Neurokinin-1 and its ligand Substance P, which is released in the gut following chemotherapy administration. Neurokinin-1 is also known as Tachykinin Receptor 1 (TACR1), Neurokinin 1 Receptor (NK1R), and Substance P Receptor (SPR).  By blocking Substance P from interacting with NK-1 receptors in the gut and the central nervous system, rolapitant prevents late-phase CINV. Unlike other available NK-1 receptor antagonists, rolapitant is not an inhibitor of Cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP3A4 and has a long elimination half-life, allowing a single dose to prevent both acute and late-phase CINV during the first 120 hours post-chemotherapy.
Rolapitant is a Substance P/Neurokinin-1 Receptor Antagonist. The mechanism of action of rolapitant is as a Neurokinin 1 Antagonist, and Cytochrome P450 2D6 Inhibitor, and Breast Cancer Resistance Protein Inhibitor, and P-Glycoprotein Inhibitor.
Rolapitant is an orally available antiemetic agent that is used to prevent cancer chemotherapy related nausea and vomiting. Rolapitant therapy has not been associated with serum enzyme elevations or with instances of clinically apparent liver injury with jaundice.
Rolapitant is an orally bioavailable, centrally-acting, selective, neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1-receptor) antagonist, with potential antiemetic activity. Upon oral administration, rolapitant competitively binds to and blocks the activity of the NK1-receptor in the central nervous system, thereby inhibiting the binding of the endogenous ligand, substance P (SP). This may prevent both SP-induced emesis and chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). The interaction of SP with the NK1-receptor plays a key role in the induction of nausea and vomiting caused by emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Compared to other NK1-receptor antagonists, rolapitant has both a more rapid onset of action and a much longer half-life.
ROLAPITANT is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2015 and is indicated for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting and has 4 investigational indications.
See also: Rolapitant Hydrochloride (has salt form).
Properties:safety: Health Hazard
smiles: C[C@H](C1=CC(=CC(=C1)C(F)(F)F)C(F)(F)F)OC[C@]2(CC[C@]3(CCC(=O)N3)CN2)C4=CC=CC=C4
formula: C25H26F6N2O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 500.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 4.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 2
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 9
Rotatable Bond Count: 5
Exact Mass: 500.18984705 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 500.18984705 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 50.4
Heavy Atom Count: 35
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 731
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 3
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

