Name: Serotonin
Text:
Serotonin is a primary amino compound that is the 5-hydroxy derivative of tryptamine. It has a role as a human metabolite, a mouse metabolite and a neurotransmitter. It is a monoamine molecular messenger, a primary amino compound, a member of phenols, a member of hydroxyindoles and a member of tryptamines. It is functionally related to a tryptamine. It is a conjugate base of a serotonin(1+).
For temporary relief of nervousness, anxiety, mood swings, joint pains, weakness, drowsiness, itching and lethargy. Not evaluated by the FDA, homeopathic product.
Serotonin has been reported in Mamestra brassicae, Bufo gargarizans, and other organisms with data available.
SEROTONIN is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III and has 1 investigational indication.
A biochemical messenger and regulator, synthesized from the essential amino acid L-TRYPTOPHAN. In humans it is found primarily in the central nervous system, gastrointestinal tract, and blood platelets. Serotonin mediates several important physiological functions including neurotransmission, gastrointestinal motility, hemostasis, and cardiovascular integrity. Multiple receptor families (RECEPTORS, SEROTONIN) explain the broad physiological actions and distribution of this biochemical mediator.
See also: Serotonin Hydrochloride (active moiety of); Serotonin; tryptophan (component of); Acetylcholine Chloride; Histamine; Serotonin (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: C1=CC2=C(C=C1O)C(=CN2)CCN
formula: C10H12N2O
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 176.21 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.2
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 176.094963011 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 176.094963011 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 62
Heavy Atom Count: 13
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 174
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

