Name: Sodium Lauryl Sulfate
Text:
Dodecyl sulfate, [sodium salt] appears as white to pale yellow paste or liquid with a mild odor. Sinks and mixes with water. (USCG, 1999)
Sodium dodecyl sulfate is an organic sodium salt that is the sodium salt of dodecyl hydrogen sulfate. It has a role as a detergent and a protein denaturant. It contains a dodecyl sulfate.
Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS) is an anionic surfactant naturally derived from coconut and/or palm kernel oil. It usually consists of a mixture of sodium alkyl sulfates, mainly the lauryl. SLS lowers surface tension of aqueous solutions and is used as fat emulsifier, wetting agent, and detergent in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and toothpastes. It is also used in creams and pastes to properly disperse the ingredients and as research tool in protein biochemistry. SLS also has some microbicidal activity.
SODIUM LAURYL SULFATE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of III (across all indications) and has 7 investigational indications.
An anionic surfactant, usually a mixture of sodium alkyl sulfates, mainly the lauryl; lowers surface tension of aqueous solutions; used as fat emulsifier, wetting agent, detergent in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and toothpastes; also as research tool in protein biochemistry.
See also: Lauryl sulfate (has active moiety); Oxyquinoline sulfate; sodium lauryl sulfate (component of); Sodium Lauryl Sulfate; Zinc Sulfate (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: CCCCCCCCCCCCOS(=O)(=O)[O-].[Na+]
formula: NaSO4C12H25
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 288.38 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 12
Exact Mass: 288.13712473 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 288.13712473 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 74.8
Heavy Atom Count: 18
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 249
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

