Name: Sodium Dichromate
Text:
Sodium dichromate appears as a red or red-orange crystalline solid. May be strongly irritating to skin, eyes and mucous membranes. Used as a corrosion inhibitor, and in the manufacture of other chemicals.
Sodium dichromate is an inorganic sodium salt. It contains a dichromate(2-).
Sodium Dichromate is an orange to red colored, crystalline, inorganic compound that emits toxic chromium fumes upon heating. Sodium dichromate is highly corrosive and is a strong oxidizing agent. This substance is mainly used to produce other chromium compounds, but is also used in drilling muds, in metal treatments, in wood preservatives, in the production of dyes and organic chemicals and as a corrosion inhibitor. Sodium dichromate primarily affects the respiratory system causing ulcerations, shortness of breath, bronchitis, pneumonia and asthma but can also affect the gastrointestinal tract, liver, kidneys and immune system. This substance is a known human carcinogen and is associated with an increased risk of developing lung cancer and cancer of the sinonasal cavity. (NCI05)
Sodium dichromate is a chemical compound of sodium and hexavalent chromium. It is produced during the processing of chromium ore and may be used in organic synthesis. Hexavalent chromium refers to chemical compounds that contain the element chromium in the +6 oxidation state. Chromium(VI) is more toxic than other oxidation states of the chromium atom because of its greater ability to enter cells and higher redox potential. (L16, L529)
Properties:safety: Oxidizer and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Health Hazard and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [O-][Cr](=O)(=O)O[Cr](=O)(=O)[O-].[Na+].[Na+]
formula: Na2Cr2O7
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 261.97 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 7
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 261.824950 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 261.824950 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 124
Heavy Atom Count: 11
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 194
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 3
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

