Name: Sodium Chloride
Text:
Sodium chloride is an inorganic chloride salt having sodium(1+) as the counterion. It has a role as an emetic and a flame retardant. It is an inorganic chloride and an inorganic sodium salt.
Sodium chloride, also known as salt, common salt, table salt or halite, is an ionic compound with the chemical formula NaCl, representing a 1:1 ratio of sodium and chloride ions. Sodium chloride is the primary salt in seawater and in the extracellular fluid of many multicellular organisms. It is listed on the World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines.
Sodium Chloride is a metal halide composed of sodium and chloride with sodium and chloride replacement capabilities. When depleted in the body, sodium must be replaced in order to maintain intracellular osmolarity, nerve conduction, muscle contraction and normal renal function.
Salt is an ionic compound that results from the neutralization of an acid and a base.
SODIUM CHLORIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 9 approved and 338 investigational indications.
Sodium chloride or table salt is a mineral substance belonging to the larger class of compounds called ionic salts. Salt in its natural form is known as rock salt or halite. Salt is present in vast quantities in the ocean, which has about 35 grams of sodium chloride per litre, corresponding to a salinity of 3.5%. Salt is essential for animal life, and saltiness is one of the basic human tastes. The tissues of animals contain larger quantities of salt than do plant tissues. Salt is one of the oldest and most ubiquitous of food seasonings, and salting is an important method of food preservation. Salt is produced from salt mines or by the evaporation of seawater or mineral-rich spring water in shallow pools. Salt is used in many industrial processes and in the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride, plastics, paper pulp and many other consumer products. Of the global annual production of around 200,000,000 tonnes of salt, only 6% is used for human consumption. Other uses include water conditioning, highway de-icing and various agricultural applications. For humans, salt is a major source of sodium. Sodium is essential to life: it helps nerves and muscles to function correctly, and it is one of the factors involved in the regulation of water content.
A ubiquitous sodium salt that is commonly used to season food.
See also: Dextrose; potassium chloride; sodium chloride (component of); Chloride Ion (has active moiety); Sodium Cation (has active moiety) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: [Na+].[Cl-]
formula: ClNa
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 58.44 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 57.9586220 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 57.9586220 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 2
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 2
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

