Name: Sodium Hypochlorite
Text:
Sodium hypochlorite appears as colorless or slightly yellow watery liquid with an odor of household bleach. Mixes with water. (USCG, 1999)
Sodium hypochlorite is an inorganic sodium salt in which hypochlorite is the counterion. It is used as a bleaching and disinfecting agent and is commonly found in household bleach. It has a role as a disinfectant and a bleaching agent. It contains a hypochlorite.
Sodium Hypochlorite is a chlorine compound often used as a disinfectant or a bleaching agent. Sodium hypochlorite in 0.5% w/v solution is called Dakin's solution, and is used as an antiseptic to clean infected topical wounds.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) and has 6 investigational indications.
Sodium Hypochlorite is the sodium salt of hypochlorous acid. When dissolved in water it is commonly known as bleach or liquid bleach, and is frequently used as a disinfectant or a bleaching agent. Household bleach is, typically a solution containing 3-8% sodium hypochlorite and 0.01-0.05% sodium hydroxide. The sodium hydroxide is used to slow the decomposition of sodium hypochlorite into sodium chloride and sodium chlorate. In household form, sodium hypochlorite is used for removal of stains from laundry. It is particularly effective on cotton fiber, which stains easily but bleaches well.  Most sodium hyphchlorite is sold in aqueous solutions of varying concentrations.
It is used as an oxidizing and bleaching agent and as a disinfectant. (From Grant and Hackh's Chemical Dictionary, 5th ed)
See also: Hypochlorite ion (has active moiety) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [O-]Cl.[Na+]
formula: NaClO
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 74.44 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 73.9535366 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 73.9535366 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 23.1
Heavy Atom Count: 3
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 4.8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 2
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

