Name: Stearic Acid
Text:
Stearic acid is a white solid with a mild odor. Floats on water. (USCG, 1999)
Octadecanoic acid is a C18 straight-chain saturated fatty acid component of many animal and vegetable lipids. As well as in the diet, it is used in hardening soaps, softening plastics and in making cosmetics, candles and plastics. It has a role as a plant metabolite, a human metabolite, a Daphnia magna metabolite and an algal metabolite. It is a long-chain fatty acid, a straight-chain saturated fatty acid and a saturated fatty acid. It is a conjugate acid of an octadecanoate. It derives from a hydride of an octadecane.
Stearic acid (IUPAC systematic name: octadecanoic acid) is one of the useful types of saturated fatty acids that comes from many animal and vegetable fats and oils. It is a waxy solid.
Stearic acid is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Stearic Acid has been reported in Calodendrum capense, Amaranthus hybridus, and other organisms with data available.
Stearic Acid is a saturated long-chain fatty acid with an 18-carbon backbone. Stearic acid is found in various animal and plant fats, and is a major component of cocoa butter and shea butter.
Stearic acid, also called octadecanoic acid, is one of the useful types of saturated fatty acids that comes from many animal and vegetable fats and oils. It is a waxy solid, and its chemical formula is CH3(CH2)16COOH. Its name comes from the Greek word stear, which means tallow. Its IUPAC name is octadecanoic acid. -- Wikipedia.
See also: Magnesium Stearate (active moiety of); Sodium Stearate (is active moiety of); Cod Liver Oil (part of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC(=O)O
formula: C18H36O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 284.5 g/mol
XLogP3: 7.4
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 16
Exact Mass: 284.271530387 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 284.271530387 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 37.3
Heavy Atom Count: 20
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 202
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

