Name: Thallium
Text:
Pure thallium is a bluish-white metal that is found in trace amounts in the earth's crust. In the past, thallium was obtained as a by-product from smelting other metals; however, it has not been produced in the United States since 1984. Currently, all the thallium is obtained from imports and from thallium reserves.. In its pure form, thallium is odorless and tasteless. It can also be found combined with other substances such as bromine, chlorine, fluorine, and iodine. When it's combined, it appears colorless-to-white or yellow.. Thallium is used mostly in manufacturing electronic devices, switches, and closures, primarily for the semiconductor industry. It also has limited use in the manufacture of special glass and for certain medical procedures.
Thallium appears as bluish-white soft malleable metal or gray granules. Density 11.85 g / cm3. Emits toxic fumes when heated. May be packaged under water.
Thallium is a metallic element first identified and named from the brilliant green line in its flame spectrum (from Greek thetaalphalambdalambdaomicronsigma, a green shoot).
Thallium is a naturally occurring trace metalloid element with atomic symbol Tl, atomic number 81, and atomic weight 204.383. Thallium is used in manufacturing, as well as in some chemical reactions and medical procedures. Use as a pesticide has been banned in the United States due to toxicity from accidental exposure. It is characterized as an odorless, bluish-white, metallic soft solid that turns to a gray powder with an aromatic odor when exposed to air. Exposure occurs by inhalation of fumes, ingestion, or contact.
thallium is a mineral.
A heavy, bluish white metal, atomic number 81, atomic weight [204.382; 204.385], symbol Tl.
See also: Phosphorus; sodium fluoride; thallium (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Acute Toxic and Health Hazard
smiles: [Tl]
formula: Tl
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 204.383 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 204.97443 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 204.97443 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

