Name: Thalidomide
Text:
Thalidomide can cause developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts.
Thalidomide appears as needles or white powder. (NTP, 1992)
2-(2,6-dioxopiperidin-3-yl)-1H-isoindole-1,3(2H)-dione is a dicarboximide that is isoindole-1,3(2H)-dione in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is substituted by a 2,6-dioxopiperidin-3-yl group. It is a member of piperidones and a member of phthalimides.
A piperidinyl isoindole originally introduced as a non-barbiturate hypnotic, thalidomide was withdrawn from the market due to teratogenic effects. It has been reintroduced and used for a number of inflammatory disorders and cancers. Thalidomide displays immunosuppressive and anti-angiogenic activity through modulating the release of inflammatory mediators like tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a) and other cytokine action. Due to severe teratogenicity, pregnancy must be excluded before the start of treatment and patients must enrol in the THALIDOMID Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) program to ensure contraception adherence.
The physiologic effect of thalidomide is by means of Decreased Immunologically Active Molecule Activity.
Thalidomide and its analogues lenalidomide and pomalidomide are immunomodulatory and antineoplastic agents that are used in the therapy of multiple myeloma. These three agents are associated with a low rate of serum aminotransferase elevations during therapy and have been implicated in causing rare instances of clinically apparent liver injury which can be severe.
Thalidomide is a synthetic derivative of glutamic acid (alpha-phthalimido-glutarimide) with teratogenic, immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic properties.  Thalidomide acts primarily by inhibiting both the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in stimulated peripheral monocytes and the activities of interleukins and interferons.  This agent also inhibits polymorphonuclear chemotaxis and monocyte phagocytosis.  In addition, thalidomide inhibits pro-angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), thereby inhibiting angiogenesis.
THALIDOMIDE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 1998 and is indicated for immune system disease and multiple myeloma and has 85 investigational indications. This drug has a black box warning from the FDA.
A piperidinyl isoindole originally introduced as a non-barbiturate hypnotic, but withdrawn from the market due to teratogenic effects. It has been reintroduced and used for a number of immunological and inflammatory disorders. Thalidomide displays immunosuppresive and anti-angiogenic activity. It inhibits release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha from monocytes, and modulates other cytokine action. [PubChem]
A piperidinyl isoindole originally introduced as a non-barbiturate hypnotic, but withdrawn from the market due to teratogenic effects. It has been reintroduced and used for a number of immunological and inflammatory disorders. Thalidomide displays immunosuppressive and anti-angiogenic activity. It inhibits release of TUMOR NECROSIS FACTOR-ALPHA from monocytes, and modulates other cytokine action.
See also: (R)-Thalidomide (annotation moved to); (S)-Thalidomide (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: C1CC(=O)NC(=O)C1N2C(=O)C3=CC=CC=C3C2=O
formula: C13H10N2O4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 258.23 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 258.06405680 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 258.06405680 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 83.6
Heavy Atom Count: 19
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 449
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 1
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

