Name: Thiabendazole
Text:
Thiabendazole appears as white or cream-colored odorless, tasteless powder. Sublimes above 590 °F. Fluoresces in acidic solution. Formulated as a dust, flowable powder or wettable powder for use as a systemic fungicide and anthelmintic.
Thiabendazole is a member of the class of benzimidazoles carrying a 1,3-thiazol-4-yl substituent at position 2. A mainly post-harvest fungicide used to control a wide range of diseases including Aspergillus, Botrytis, Cladosporium and Fusarium. It has a role as an antifungal agrochemical and an antinematodal drug. It is a member of benzimidazoles, a member of 1,3-thiazoles and a benzimidazole fungicide. It derives from a hydride of a 1H-benzimidazole.
2-Substituted benzimidazole first introduced in 1962. It is active against a variety of nematodes and is the drug of choice for strongyloidiasis. It has CNS side effects and hepatototoxic potential. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1992, p919)
Thiabendazole is an Anthelmintic.
Thiabendazole is a broad spectrum anthelmintic agent used predominantly in treatment of intestinal pinworm and strongyloides infection, which recently has been replaced by better tolerated agents. Thiabendazole therapy has been shown to cause clinically apparent cholestatic liver injury which is rare, but can be severe.
Thiabendazole is a benzimidazole derivative with anthelminthic property. Although the mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, thiabendazole inhibits the helminth-specific mitochondrial enzyme fumarate reductase, thereby inhibiting the citric acid cycle, mitochondrial respiration and subsequent production of ATP, ultimately leading to helminth's death. In addition, it has been suggested that thiabendazole may lead to inhibition of microtubule polymerization by binding to beta-tubulin and has an overt ovicidal effect with regard to some trichostrongylids.
THIABENDAZOLE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV that was first approved in 1967 and is indicated for helminthiasis.
Thiabendazole is a fungicide and parasiticide. It is used primarily to control mold, blight, and other fungally caused diseases in fruits (e.g. oranges) and vegetables; it is also used as a prophylactic treatment for Dutch elm disease. As an antiparasitic, it is able to control roundworms (such as those causing strongyloidiasis), hookworms, and other helminth species which attack wild animals, livestock and humans.
2-Substituted benzimidazole first introduced in 1962. It is active against a variety of nematodes and is the drug of choice for STRONGYLOIDIASIS. It has CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM side effects and hepatototoxic potential. (From Smith and Reynard, Textbook of Pharmacology, 1992, p919)
See also: Thiabendazole; Trichlorfon (component of); Dexamethasone; Neomycin Sulfate; Thiabendazole (component of).
Properties:safety: Environmental Hazard
smiles: C1=CC=C2C(=C1)NC(=N2)C3=CSC=N3
formula: C10H7N3S
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 201.25 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 1
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 1
Exact Mass: 201.03606841 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 201.03606841 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 69.8
Heavy Atom Count: 14
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 212
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

