Name: Toluene
Text:
Toluene is a clear, colorless liquid with a distinctive smell. Toluene occurs naturally in crude oil and in the tolu tree. It is also produced in the process of making gasoline and other fuels from crude oil and making coke from coal. Toluene is used in making paints, paint thinners, fingernail polish, lacquers, adhesives, and rubber and in some printing and leather tanning processes.
Toluene can cause developmental toxicity according to an independent committee of scientific and health experts. It can cause female reproductive toxicity according to California Labor Code.
Toluene appears as a clear colorless liquid with a characteristic aromatic odor. Flash point 40 °F. Less dense than water (7.2 lb / gal) and insoluble in water. Hence floats on water. Vapors heavier than air. May be toxic by inhalation, ingestion or skin contact. Used in aviation and automotive fuels, as a solvent, and to make other chemicals.
Toluene is the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent. It has a role as a non-polar solvent, a cholinergic antagonist, a neurotoxin and a fuel additive. It is a methylbenzene, a volatile organic compound and a member of toluenes.
Toluene is a colorless, liquid that is immiscible in water. It is a mono-substituted benzene derivative used in veterinary medicine as a treatment for various parasites in dogs and cats.
Toluene is added to gasoline, used to produce benzene, and used as a solvent. Exposure to toluene may occur from breathing ambient or indoor air affected by such sources. The central nervous system (CNS) is the primary target organ for toluene toxicity in both humans and animals for acute (short-term) and chronic (long-term) exposures. CNS dysfunction and narcosis have been frequently observed in humans acutely exposed to elevated airborne levels of toluene; symptoms include fatigue, sleepiness, headaches, and nausea. CNS depression has been reported to occur in chronic abusers exposed to high levels of toluene. Chronic inhalation exposure of humans to toluene also causes irritation of the upper respiratory tract and eyes, sore throat, dizziness, and headache. Human studies have reported developmental effects, such as CNS dysfunction, attention deficits, and minor craniofacial and limb anomalies, in the children of pregnant women exposed to high levels of toluene or mixed solvents by inhalation. EPA has concluded that that there is inadequate information to assess the carcinogenic potential of toluene.
Toluene has been reported in Basella alba, Zingiber mioga, and other organisms with data available.
Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon composed of a benzene ring linked to one methyl group. Toluene is used a solvent or as a chemical intermediate in various industrial applications. Rapid inhalation of high concentrations of toluene can cause severe neurological complications.
TOLUENE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of II and has 1 investigational indication.
Toluene is found in allspice. Toluene is isolated from distilled tolu balsam (Myroxylon balsamum). Minor constituent of lime oil (Citrus aurantifolia).Toluene, formerly known as toluol, is a clear, water-insoluble liquid with the typical smell of paint thinners. It is an aromatic hydrocarbon that is widely used as an industrial feedstock and as a solvent. (Wikipedia) 

Toluene has been shown to exhibit beta-oxidant, depressant, hepatoprotective, anesthetic and neurotransmitter functions (A7693, A7694, A7695, A7696, A7697).
A widely used industrial solvent.
See also: Aromatic Hydrocarbon (subclass of); Benzene, toluene and xylene (component of); Dichlorophene; Toluene (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC1=CC=CC=C1
formula: C7H8
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 92.14 g/mol
XLogP3: 2.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 92.062600255 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 92.062600255 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 7
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 42
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

