Name: Triethanolamine
Text:
Triethanolamine is an oily liquid with a mild ammonia odor. Denser than water. Freezing point is 71 °F. (USCG, 1999)
Triethanolamine is a tertiary amino compound that is ammonia in which each of the hydrogens is substituted by a 2-hydroxyethyl group. It has a role as a buffer and a surfactant. It is a tertiary amino compound, a triol and an amino alcohol. It is functionally related to a triethylamine. It is a conjugate base of a triethanolammonium.
Trolamine, which is also referred to as triethanolamine (TEA), is a tertiary amine and a triol. It is a bifunctional compound that exhibits both properties of alcohols and amines. Trolamine contains small amounts of diethanolamine and ethanolamine and may also act as an antioxidant against the auto-oxidation of animal and vegetable fats. It is commonly used as a pH adjuster and surfactant in industrial and cosmetic products such as skin and hair conditioning products.
Triethanolamine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Triethanolamine has been reported in Phaseolus vulgaris with data available.
TROLAMINE is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV and is indicated for skin ulcer.
Triethanolamine is used as a food additive [EAFUS] ("EAFUS: Everything Added to Food in the United States. [http://www.eafus.com/]").

Triethanolamine belongs to the family of Alkylamines. These are organic compounds containing an alkylamine group.
See also: Ethanol, 2,2',2''-nitrilotris-, homopolymer (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C(CO)N(CCO)CCO
formula: C6H15NO3
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 149.19 g/mol
XLogP3: -1
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 6
Exact Mass: 149.10519334 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 149.10519334 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 63.9
Heavy Atom Count: 10
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 55.7
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

