Name: Trimethylamine
Text:
Trimethylamine, anhydrous appears as a colorless gas with a fishlike odor at low concentrations changing to ammonia-like odor at higher concentrations. Shipped as a liquid under its own vapor pressure. Contact with the unconfined liquid can cause frostbite from evaporative cooling or chemical type burns. The gasis corrosive and dissolves in water to form flammable, corrosive solutions. Gas is an asphyxiate by the displacement of air. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen during combustion. Prolonged exposure to heat can cause the containers to rupture violently and rocket. Long-term inhalation of low concentrations or short -term inhalation of high concentrations has adverse health effects.
Trimethylamine, aqueous solution appears as a clear to yellow aqueous solution of a gas. Odor varies from fishlike to ammonia-like depending on vapor concentration. Flash point (25% solution) 35 °F. Corrosive to skin and eyes. Less dense than water. Vapors heavier than air. Produces toxic oxides of nitrogen when burned.
Trimethylamine is a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an methyl group. It has a role as a human xenobiotic metabolite and an Escherichia coli metabolite. It is a tertiary amine and a member of methylamines. It is a conjugate base of a trimethylammonium.
Trimethylamine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Trimethylamine has been reported in Velella velella, Amorphophallus brachyphyllus, and other organisms with data available.
 Trimethylamine is a uremic toxin.  Uremic toxins can be subdivided into three major groups based upon their chemical and physical characteristics: 1) small, water-soluble, non-protein-bound compounds, such as urea; 2) small, lipid-soluble and/or protein-bound compounds, such as the phenols and 3) larger so-called middle-molecules, such as beta2-microglobulin. Chronic exposure of uremic toxins can lead to a number of conditions including renal damage, chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. 
Trimethylamine, also known as NMe3, N(CH3)3, and TMA, is a colorless, hygroscopic, and flammable simple amine with a typical fishy odor in low concentrations and an ammonia like odor in higher concentrations. Trimethylamine has a boiling point of 2.9 degree centigrade and is a gas at room temperature. Trimethylamine usually comes in pressurized gas cylinders or as a 40% solution in water. Trimethylamine is a nitrogenous base and its positively charged cation is called trimethylammonium cation. A common salt of trimethylamine is trimethylammonium chloride, a hygroscopic colorless solid. Trimethylamine is a product of decomposition of plants and animals. It is the substance mainly responsible for the fishy odor often associated with fouling fish, bacterial vagina infections, and bad breath. It is also associated with taking large doses of choline. Trimethylaminuria is a genetic disorder in which the body is unable to metabolize trimethylamine from food sources. Patients develop a characteristic fish odour of their sweat, urine, and breath after the consumption of choline-rich foods. Trimethylaminuria is an autosomal recessive disorder involving a trimethylamine oxidase deficiency. Trimethylaminuria has also been observed in a certain breed of Rhode Island Red chicken that produces eggs with a fishy smell.
See also: Acorus calamus root (part of).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Compressed Gas and Corrosive and Irritant
smiles: CN(C)C
formula: C3H9N
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 59.11 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.3
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 1
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 59.073499291 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 59.073499291 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 3.2
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 8
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

