Name: Tungsten
Text:
Tungsten is a naturally occurring element. It occurs in rocks and minerals combined with other chemicals, but never as a pure metal. Elemental tungsten is a white to steel gray metal (depending on the purity) that can be used in pure form or mixed with other metals to make alloys. Tungsten alloys tend to be strong and flexible, resist wear, and conduct electricity well. Tungsten is used in products such as x-ray tubes, light bulbs, high-speed tools, welding electrodes, turbine blades, golf clubs, darts, fishing weights, gyroscope wheels, phonograph needles, bullets, and armor penetrators. Tungsten is also used as a catalyst to speed up chemical reactions. Chemical compounds of tungsten are used for many purposes. Cemented tungsten carbide is a hard substance used to make grinding wheels and cutting or forming tools. Other tungsten compounds are used in ceramic pigments, as fire retardant coatings for fabrics, and as color-resistant dyes for fabrics.
Dull gray powder or hard, brittle, steel-gray to white metal. Difficult to melt. Mp: 3410 °C; bp; 5900 °C. Density: 19.3 g/cm3. Used in alloys, light bulb filaments, and cutting tools.  Tungsten Dust (for example, from grinding) may present a moderate fire hazard if allowed to accumulate and exposed to an ignition source.
Tungsten is a chromium group element atom. It has a role as a micronutrient.
Tungsten is a mineral with formula of W. The corresponding IMA (International Mineralogical Association) number is IMA2011-004. The IMA symbol is W.
A metallic element with the atomic symbol W, atomic number 74, and atomic weight 183.85. It is used in many manufacturing applications, including increasing the hardness, toughness, and tensile strength of steel; manufacture of filaments for incandescent light bulbs; and in contact points for automotive and electrical apparatus.
See also: TUNGSTEN (powder) (annotation moved to); TUNGSTEN, METAL & INSOLUBLE COMPOUNDS (as W) (annotation moved to); Tungsten, soluble compounds (annotation moved to).
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [W]
formula: W
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 183.84 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 183.950933 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 183.950933 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

