Name: Vinyl acetate
Text:
Vinyl acetate is an industrial chemical that is produced in large amounts in the United States. It is a clear, colorless liquid with a sweet, fruity smell. It is very flammable and may be ignited by heat, sparks, or flames. Vinyl acetate is used to make other industrial chemicals. These chemicals are used mainly to make glues for the packaging and building industries. They are also used to make paints, textiles, and paper. Vinyl acetate is also used as a coating in plastic films for food packaging and as a modifier of food starch.
Vinyl acetate appears as a clear colorless liquid. Flash point 18 °F. Density 7.8 lb / gal. Slightly soluble in water. Vapors are heavier than air. Vapors irritate the eyes and respiratory system. May polymerize if heated or contaminated. If polymerization occurs inside a container, the container may violently rupture. Used to make adhesives, paints, and plastics.
Vinyl acetate is an acetate ester.
Vinyl acetate is primarily used as a monomer in the production of polyvinyl acetate and polyvinyl alcohol. Acute (short-term) inhalation exposure of workers to vinyl acetate has resulted in eye irritation and upper respiratory tract irritation. Chronic (long-term) occupational exposure did not result in any severe adverse effects in workers; some instances of upper respiratory tract irritation, cough, and/or hoarseness were reported. Nasal epithelial lesions and irritation and inflammation of the respiratory tract were observed in mice and rats chronically exposed by inhalation. No information is available on the reproductive, developmental, or carcinogenic effects of vinyl acetate in humans. An increased incidence of nasal cavity tumors has been observed in rats exposed by inhalation. In one drinking water study, an increased incidence of tumors was reported in rats. EPA has not classified vinyl acetate for carcinogenicity.
Polyvinyl acetate is a rubbery synthetic polymer. It is a component of glue and is used mainly as an adhesive for porous materials, particularly  for wood, paper, and cloth. While polyvinyl acetate itself is not considered hazardous, it usually contains trace amounts of its precursor, vinyl acetate, which is toxic. (L1301, L1302)
Polyvinyl acetate is used as a food additive [EAFUS] (EAFUS: Everything Added to Food in the United States. [http://www.eafus.com/]).

Ethenyl acetate belongs to the family of Carboxylic Acid Esters. These are carboxylic acid derivatives in which the carbo atom from the carbonyl group is atached to an alkyl or oaryl moiety through an oxygen atom (forming an ester group).
See also: Polyvinyl acetate (monomer of); Polyvinyl acetate phthalate (monomer of); Copovidone K25-31 (monomer of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Irritant and Health Hazard
smiles: CC(=O)OC=C
formula: C4H6O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 86.09 g/mol
XLogP3: 0.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 2
Rotatable Bond Count: 2
Exact Mass: 86.036779430 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 86.036779430 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 26.3
Heavy Atom Count: 6
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 65.9
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

