Name: White Phosphorus
Text:
White phosphorus is a colorless, white, or yellow waxy solid with a garlic-like odor. It does not occur naturally, but is manufactured from phosphate rocks. White phosphorus reacts rapidly with oxygen, easily catching fire at temperatures 10 to 15 degrees above room temperature. White phosphorus is used by the military in various types of ammunition, and to produce smoke for concealing troop movements and identifying targets. It is also used by industry to produce phosphoric acid and other chemicals for use in fertilizers, food additives, and cleaning compounds. Small amounts of white phosphorus were used in the past in pesticides and fireworks.
Phosphorus, white or yellow appears as a soft waxy solid with a sharp pungent odor similar to garlic. Insoluble in water and ethyl alcohol. Soluble in carbon disulfide. Shipped as a solid or liquid in an atmosphere of inert gas or as a solid under water. Barely soluble in water and denser than water. Hence, sinks in water. Uses include munitions manufacture, pyrotechnics, explosives, smoke bombs, artificial fertilizers, and rat poisons. Density approximately 15.2 lb / gal.
Tetraphosphorus is a member of tetraatomic phosphorus.
White Phosphorus is the element phosphorus in its allotropic form, a soft, waxy, poisonous solid melting at 44.5 degrees C; soluble in carbon disulfide, insoluble in water and alcohol; self-igniting in air.
White phosphorus is a colorless, white, or yellow waxy solid with a garlic-like odor. It does not occur naturally, but is manufactured from phosphate rocks. White phosphorus reacts rapidly with oxygen, easily catching fire at temperatures 10 to 15 degrees above room temperature. White phosphorus is used by the military in various types of ammunition, and to produce smoke for concealing troop movements and identifying targets. It is also used by industry to produce phosphoric acid and other chemicals for use in fertilizers, food additives, and cleaning compounds. Small amounts of white phosphorus were used in the past in pesticides and fireworks. Exposure to white phosphorus may come through working at a facility where white phosphorus is manufactured, breathing contaminated air near a facility that is using white phosphorus, eating contaminated fish or game birds or drinking or swimming in water that has been contaminated with white phosphorus, or touching soil contaminated with white phosphorus. Little information is available about the health effects that may be caused by white phosphorus. Most of what is known about the effects of breathing white phosphorus is from studies of workers. Most of what is known about the effects of eating white phosphorus is from reports of people eating rat poison or fireworks that contained it. Breathing white phosphorus for short periods may cause coughing and irritation of the throat and lungs. Breathing white phosphorus for long periods may cause a condition known as 'phossy jaw' which involves poor wound healing of the mouth and breakdown of the jaw bone. Eating or drinking small amounts of white phosphorus may cause liver, heart, or kidney damage, vomiting, stomach cramps, drowsiness, or death. The effects of chronic ingestion are unknown. Skin contact with burning white phosphorus may burn skin or cause liver, heart, and kidney damage. It is not known whether white phosphorus affects fertility or causes birth defects. There are no studies linking white phosphorus to cancer in humans or animals. (L2077)
A non-metal element that has the atomic symbol P, atomic number 15, and atomic weight 31. It is an essential element that takes part in a broad variety of biochemical reactions.
See also: Phosphorus (subclass of).
Properties:safety: Flammable and Corrosive and Acute Toxic and Environmental Hazard
smiles: P12P3P1P23
formula: P4
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 123.8950480 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.5
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 123.89504799 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 123.89504799 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 4
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 43
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

