Name: Xanthine
Text:
9H-xanthine is an oxopurine in which the purine ring is substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 6 and N-9 is protonated. It has a role as a Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolite. It is a tautomer of a 7H-xanthine.
A purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi. It is an intermediate in the degradation of adenosine monophosphate to uric acid, being formed by oxidation of hypoxanthine. The methylated xanthine compounds caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline and their derivatives are used in medicine for their bronchodilator effects. (Dorland, 28th ed)
Xanthine is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Xanthine has been reported in Eleutherococcus giraldii, Drosophila melanogaster, and other organisms with data available.
Xanthine is a purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi. It is an intermediate in the degradation of adenosine monophosphate to uric acid, being formed by oxidation of hypoxanthine. The methylated xanthine compounds caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline and their derivatives are used in medicine for their bronchodilator effects. (Dorland, 28th ed.).
Xanthine is a metabolite found in or produced by Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
A purine base found in most body tissues and fluids, certain plants, and some urinary calculi. It is an intermediate in the degradation of adenosine monophosphate to uric acid, being formed by oxidation of hypoxanthine. The methylated xanthine compounds caffeine, theobromine, and theophylline and their derivatives are used in medicine for their bronchodilator effects. (Dorland, 28th ed)
Properties:safety: Irritant
smiles: C1=NC2=C(N1)C(=O)NC(=O)N2
formula: C5H4N4O2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 152.11 g/mol
XLogP3: -0.7
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 3
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 3
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 152.03342538 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 152.03342538 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 86.9
Heavy Atom Count: 11
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 217
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

