Name: Zinc Acetate
Text:
Obtained in both anhydrous form and as a dihydrate. Both are white crystalline solids. The primary hazard is the threat posed to the environment. Immediate steps should be taken to limit spread to the environment. Used to preserve wood, to make other zinc compounds, as a food and feed additive.
Zinc acetate is an acetate salt in which the cationic component is zinc(2+). It has a role as an astringent. It is a zinc molecular entity and an acetate salt.
Zinc Acetate is a zinc salt of acetic acid essential for the synthesis of cholesterol, protein, and fats. Zinc plays an important role in the proper functioning of the immune system. Zinc is required for the enzyme activities necessary for cell division, cell growth, and wound healing as well as the release of vitamin A from the liver. It plays a role in the acuity of the senses of smell and taste and is required to maintain prostate reproductive health and insulin function. Zinc is also involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates. Zinc acetate is administered orally or parenterally as a nutritional supplement.
ZINC ACETATE ANHYDROUS is a small molecule drug with a maximum clinical trial phase of IV (across all indications) that was first approved in 2004 and has 3 approved and 4 investigational indications.
Nutrient supplement. Zinc acetate is the chemical compound with the formula Zn(O2CCH3)2, which commonly occurs as a dihydrate Zn(O2CCH3)2(H2O)2. Both the hydrate and the anhydrous forms are colorless solids that are commonly used in chemical synthesis and as dietary supplements. Zinc acetates are prepared by the action of acetic acid on zinc carbonate or zinc metal. When used as a food additive, it has the E number E650. (Wikipedia).
A salt produced by the reaction of zinc oxide with acetic acid and used as an astringent, styptic, and emetic.
See also: Zinc (has active moiety); Zinc Cation (has active moiety); Zinc Acetate; Zinc Gluconate (component of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Corrosive and Irritant and Environmental Hazard
smiles: CC(=O)[O-].CC(=O)[O-].[Zn+2]
formula: Zn(C2H3O2)2
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 183.5 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 4
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 181.955750 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 181.955750 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 80.3
Heavy Atom Count: 9
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 25.5
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 3
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

