Name: Zinc
Text:
Zinc is one of the most common elements in the earth's crust. It is found in air, soil, and water, and is present in all foods. Pure zinc is a bluish-white shiny metal. Zinc has many commercial uses as coatings to prevent rust, in dry cell batteries, and mixed with other metals to make alloys like brass, and bronze. A zinc and copper alloy is used to make pennies in the United States. Zinc combines with other elements to form zinc compounds. Common zinc compounds found at hazardous waste sites include zinc chloride, zinc oxide, zinc sulfate, and zinc sulfide. Zinc compounds are widely used in industry to make paint, rubber, dyes, wood preservatives, and ointments.
Zinc ashes appears as a grayish colored powder. May produce toxic zinc oxide fumes when heated to very high temperatures or when burned. Insoluble in water. Used in paints, bleaches and to make other chemicals.
Zinc dust appears as a grayish powder. Insoluble in water. May produce toxic zinc oxide fumes when heated to very high temperatures or when burned. Used in paints, bleaches and to make other chemicals.
Zinc atom is a zinc group element atom. It has a role as a micronutrient.
A metallic element of atomic number 30 and atomic weight 65.38. It is a necessary trace element in the diet, forming an essential part of many enzymes, and playing an important role in protein synthesis and in cell division. Zinc deficiency is associated with anemia, short stature, hypogonadism, impaired wound healing, and geophagia. It is identified by the symbol Zn.  A newer study suggests implies that an imbalance of zinc is associated with the neuronal damage associated with traumatic brain injury, stroke, and seizures.   Understanding the mechanisms that control brain zinc homeostasis is, therefore, imperative to the development of preventive and treatment regimens for these and other neurological disorders.  In addition to the above, recent review articles have already demonstrated the important role of zinc in the pathophysiology and treatment of affective disorders, plus discussed the potential value of zinc as a marker of these diseases.  Most recently, research has shown that polymorphism of the common polymorphism in zinc transporter SLC30A8/ZnT8 may increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes provided novel insights into the role of zinc in diabetes.
Zinc is a metabolite found in or produced by Escherichia coli (strain K12, MG1655).
Zinc is an essential mineral and heavy metal that is included in most over-the-counter multivitamin and mineral supplements, and is used therapeutically in higher doses because of its ability to block copper absorption as maintenance therapy of Wilson disease. Zinc has not been associated with worsening of serum enzyme elevations during therapy or with clinically apparent liver injury.
Zinc has been reported in Artemia salina, Leonurus sibiricus, and other organisms with data available.
Zinc is an element with atomic symbol Zn, atomic number 30, and atomic weight 65.39.
Merrillite is a mineral with formula of Ca9NaMg(PO4)7. The corresponding IMA (International Mineralogical Association) number is IMA1976 s.p.. The IMA symbol is Mer.
Zinc is a mineral with formula of Zn. The IMA symbol is Zn.
A metallic element of atomic number 30 and atomic weight 65.38. It is a necessary trace element in the diet, forming an essential part of many enzymes, and playing an important role in protein synthesis and in cell division. Zinc deficiency is associated with anemia, short stature, hypogonadism, impaired wound healing, and geophagia. It is known by the symbol Zn.
A metallic element of atomic number 30 and atomic weight 65.38. It is a necessary trace element in the diet, forming an essential part of many enzymes, and playing an important role in protein synthesis and in cell division. Zinc deficiency is associated with ANEMIA, short stature, HYPOGONADISM, impaired WOUND HEALING, and geophagia. It is known by the symbol Zn.
See also: Zinc Oxide (active moiety of); Zinc Acetate (active moiety of); Zinc Gluconate (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable and Environmental Hazard
smiles: [Zn]
formula: Zn
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 65.4 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 63.929142 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 63.929142 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

