Name: Zirconium
Text:
Zirconium powder wet appears as a gray amorphous sludge with not less than 25% water.
Zirconium powder, dry appears as a gray amorphous powder. May ignite spontaneously and burn with explosive violence. Ignitable by static electricity. Small amounts of moisture may promote the ignition of zirconium. Continues to burn despite immersion in water and does so with greater intensity than in air. Used to make corrosion-resistant alloys, in pyrotechnics, and for many other uses.
Zirconium scrap appears as a lustrous, grayish metallic solid. May ignite spontaneously and burn with explosive violence. May ignite by static electricity. Burns immersed in water and does so with greater intensity than if burned in air.
Powdered or finely divided metal suspended in a flammable organic solvent. Dry powder left after the evaporation of the solvent is easily ignited. Static electricity may be sufficient to ignite the powder.
Zirconium, dry, coiled wire, finished metal sheets or strips appears as a grayish-white hard lustrous metal. Specific gravity 6.4. Melting point about 3362 °F (1850 °C). Insoluble in water. Low toxicity.
Hard lustrous grayish crystalline scales or gray amorphous powder.
Zirconium atom is a titanium group element atom.
zirconium is a mineral.
A rather rare metallic element with atomic number 40, atomic weight 91.224, and symbol Zr.
See also: Zirconium sulfate (active moiety of); Zirconium iodide (active moiety of); Zirconium carbonate (active moiety of) ... View More ...
Properties:safety: Flammable
smiles: [Zr]
formula: Zr
chem_properties: Molecular Weight: 91.22 g/mol
Hydrogen Bond Donor Count: 0
Hydrogen Bond Acceptor Count: 0
Rotatable Bond Count: 0
Exact Mass: 89.904699 Da
Monoisotopic Mass: 89.904699 Da
Topological Polar Surface Area: 0
Heavy Atom Count: 1
Formal Charge: 0
Complexity: 0
Isotope Atom Count: 0
Defined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Atom Stereocenter Count: 0
Defined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Undefined Bond Stereocenter Count: 0
Covalently-Bonded Unit Count: 1
Compound Is Canonicalized: Yes 

