Description:
Toxic due to its ability to replace phosphate groups in biomolecules and affinity with SH groups of cysteinyl residues.

Text:
Arsenicals are highly toxic compounds whose chronic exposure has been associated 
with carcinogenic, endocrine, cardiovascular diseases, skin and lung damage, diabetes, and 
metabolic syndrome14. The arsenic toxicity is related to its ability to replace phosphate 
groups in biomolecules, showing a strong affinity with SH groups of cysteinyl residues5,6. Among the removalremediation strategies, adsorption is ecofriendly, economical, efficient, 
and simple. The solidphase adsorption reduces undesirable byproducts, adsorbent materials 
separate by filtration and recovered for repetitive uses applying simple basicacid 
treatment7,8. In this regard, novel layered materials for arsenic sorption have emerged as 
new alternatives to commercial adsorbents, featuring a large surface area, high adsorption 
capacity, straight synthesis, and easy recovery.


---

Description:
Removed from water sources using graphene oxide composites.

Text:
Graphene oxide composites (with chitosan 
and metal oxides)913 demonstrated efficient arsenic removal from different water sources, 
where adsorption performance enhances depending on the oxidation degree14. The arsenic 
adsorption capacity of graphene oxide also increases by innersphere complexation, 
especially using hydroxyl and carboxyl groups as oxidizing groups15. Phosphorene is a layered and puckered hexagonal nanostructure of phosphorous 
atoms linked by covalent bonds and weak interlayer dispersive interactions1618, which 
shows a lamellar structure, high carrier mobility, high chemical stability, and tunable 
bandgap (0.32.0 eV)1921. Phosphorenebased nanoadsorbents have been proposed to 
uptake pollutants such as formaldehyde, nitrogen oxides, and carbon oxides22,23. Phosphorene has also been applied for simultaneous As(III)As(V) removal from water at 
neutral conditions, showing higher adsorption efficiency than graphene (4.820.0 mgg v. 
1.33 mgg)24,25.
