Description:
A material with a high absorption coefficient and excellent optoelectronic properties used in photovoltaic and photoelectrochemical cells.

Text:
Photovoltaic (PV) and photoelectrochemical (PEC) cells based on Sb2Se3 have seen a rapid rise in 
interest in recent years and significant progress has been made in their power conversion 
efficiencies,1,2 which is primarily due to its high absorption coefficient and excellent 
optoelectronic properties. However, a major challenge for Sb2Se3 is the low photovoltage obtained 
from such devices.


---

Description:
A compound whose defect passivation can be enhanced by sulfur treatment, improving charge carrier dynamics and reducing recombination.

Text:
Several strategies have been presented in the literature such as Te incorporation 
for defect passivation,5 sulfurization treatment for improved photovoltage6 and gradient sulfur 
doping in Sb2Se3.7 More fundamental insights into the basic optoelectronic properties for defect 
passivationsuppression for Sb2Se3, however, have not yet been reported. In this work, we employed time resolved microwave conductivity (TRMC) and photoluminescence 
(PL) spectroscopy to gain fundamental understanding of the defect passivation mechanism in 
Sb2Se3 by sulfur treatment. We investigated the charge carrier dynamics of Sb2Se3 before and after 
sulfur treatment using TRMC and observed the passivation of deep defects in Sb2Se3 as evidenced 
by longer carrier lifetimes. We also show that the passivation of deep defects reduces not only 
surface recombination, but also bulk recombination using a wavelength dependent TRMC study.


---

Description:
A semiconductor thin film with increased long-range order upon sulfur treatment.

Text:
Furthermore, we demonstrate increased radiative recombination efficiency by suppression of non
radiative recombination pathways in sulfurtreated Sb2Se3 using PL spectroscopy. In addition to 
this, low frequency Raman spectroscopy (LFRS) showed increased longrange order in the Sb2Se3 
semiconductor thin films upon sulfur treatment. These results explain the improved photovoltage 
of Sb2Se3 upon sulfur treatment, which presents a simple and efficient defect passivation strategy.
