Description:
Commonly used in organic chemistry to mask the electrophilic nature of carbonyl groups and serve as acyl anions in syntheses.

Text:
Dithianes are commonly used in organic chemistry to 
mask the electrophilic nature of carbonyl groups1 in 
elaborated molecules but also serve as acyl anions in 
syntheses according to the Umpolung concept.2The 
main advantages of dithianes are their easy access 
from a carbonyl compound by using propane1,3
dithiol and a Lewis acid and their stabilities in 
alkaline and acid conditions notably permitting their 
purification on silica columns. In counterparts to this 
stability, many procedures have been developed for 
their deprotection but generally require drastic 
conditions.3 Most of the time, toxic metal salts as 
Hg(II),4 Ag(I),5 Zn(II),6 Ga(III),7 Cu(II),8 
Tl(V)9 and others are used in excess in harsh 
conditions 
with 
some 
success.


---

Description:
Compounds that can be removed using hypervalentiodine reagents.

Text:
The 
use 
of 
hypervalentiodine reagents for the removal of 
dithianes has been also reported as an efficient 
process using periodic acid,10 diacetoxyiodobenzene, 
11 bis(trifluoroacetoxy)iodobenzene (BTI),12 Dess
Martin periodinane13 and Nhalosuccinimides.14 
However, a large variety of the aforementioned 
methods require the use of toxic metals, the need of 
oxidizing species in large amounts sometimes 
accompanied with cooxidants mainly in harsh 
reaction conditions. In this context, we believe that an 
alternative milder process is still needed using for 
example inexpensive and soft reagents to achieve this 
transformation at room temperature in the presence of 
various functional groups. Recently, we reported the interesting reducing 
properties of the TMSClNaI association in CH2Cl2 
towards various functional groups as unsymmetrical 
diketones,15 ketoesters,16 and hydrazonesError! Bookmark not defined. derivatives.


---

Description:
Totally and cleanly deprotected into ketones in CH3CN.

Text:
Under similar reaction 
conditions, we next demonstrated that a variety of 
dithioacetals were cleanly desulfurized at room 
temperature17 in CH2Cl2 using this metalfree 
process in a Mozingotype reaction.18 
By replacing CH2Cl2 by CH3CN as the reaction 
solvent, we surprisingly observed that dithianes 
derivatives were not reduced into methylene 
substrates but were totally and cleanly deprotected 
into ketones. It seemed interesting to study in detail 
this method for the deprotection of thioacetals which 
does not use metal salts, nor oxidants, nor toxic or 
expensive reagents (Figure 1). Herein, we wish to 
report the mild deprotection conditions of a range of 
dithianes, dithiolanes and oxygenated derivatives 
using the TMSClNaI association in CH3CN.
