Description:
Commonly used as a propellant in ion thrusters due to its inertness, high molecular weight, and relatively low ionization energy.

Text:
Ion thrusters are used to propel spacecraft and satellites 1, 2. Xenon is commonly used as a pro
pellant owing to its inertness, high molecular weight, and relatively low ionization energy 3. To store xenon propellant onboard the spacecraft, xenon is typically compressed and stored at high
pressures (75300 bar) 47 between 20C and 50C, in a supercritical state 8. The pressure vessel
must have thick walls to safely contain the xenon at these high pressures, making it heavy. Because
the cost of launching a payload into Earths orbit is ca. 10 000 USDlb 9, it is desirable to reduce the
mass of storage materials required to store xenon propellant onboard spacecraft.


---

Description:
A propellant used in space applications.

Text:
We investigate the feasibility of an alternative xenon storage strategy, with the objective of reduc
ing the mass of the storage materials required to carry the xenon propellant into space packing
the pressure vessel with a porous adsorbent material to help densify the xenon (i.e, use an ad
sorbent in combination with pressurization). Activated carbon has been investigated for adsorbed
xenon propellant storage, but it does not reduce the mass of the storage system 10.


---

Description:
A gas with high affinity for adsorption in nanoporous materials, used in propellant storage systems.

Text:
Newer
classes of nanoporous materials, such as metalorganic frameworks (MOFs) 11, porous organic
cages (POCs) 12, and covalent organic frameworks (COFs) 13, exhibit very high internal surface
areas 14, 15 and have demonstrated promise for gas densication in the context of vehicular hy
drogen and methane storage 16, motivating us to consider these advanced nanoporous materials
for adsorbed xenon propellant storage. Moreover, several of these nanoporous materials exhibit a
high anity for xenon, evidenced by their adsorptive selectivity for xenon in the context of separa
tions 1720. Here, we develop a simple mathematical model of an adsorbed xenon propellant storage system
that enables us to evaluate and rank adsorbents for adsorbed xenon propellant storage.


---

Description:
A propellant used in storage systems for space missions.

Text:
Our objec
tive is to minimize the mass of storage materials required to carry the xenon propellant needed for
the mission. For conventional, bulk xenon storage, the storage material is comprised of the mate
rial composing the walls of the pressure vessel. For adsorbed xenon storage, the storage materials
are comprised of the walls of the pressure vessel and the mass of the adsorbent material. Using
our model, we nd the optimal storage pressure that minimizes the mass of the storage materials,
under both bulk and adsorbed xenon storage strategies. The optimized conventional, bulk storage
system serves as a baseline for evaluating porous materials for adsorbed xenon storage.


---

Description:
A gas used in storage systems where adsorption isotherms and density in nanoporous materials are critical.

Text:
Our hypothesis is that the optimal storage pressure for the adsorbed xenon storage system is lower
than that of the bulk xenon storage system, thereby allowing for thinnerwalled and thus lighter
pressure vessels in the adsorbed storage system. The important question our model addresses is
whether the reduced mass of the pressure vessel in the adsorbed xenon system compensates for
the (added) mass of the adsorbent required to store the xenon at a lower pressure. The answer
to this question depends on the xenon adsorption isotherm in and density of the nanoporous ma
terial. We assess several nanoporous materials for xenon propellant storage, using experimentally
reported xenon adsorption isotherms as input to our model. We nd that MOF505 and NiMOF74
outperform the traditional adsorbent, activated carbon.
