Description:
The product of the conversion of industrial and biogenic CO2 in Powertomethane applications.

Text:
Powertomethane (PtM) is a potential solution for the storage of excess renewable power 1 and it is
a source of low carbon gaseous fuel 2. The interest in PtM is supported by the fact that the product,
methane (CH4), can be utilized in the existing natural gas infrastructure. For example, the EU has
a network of approx. 2 million km of transmission and distribution with 800 TWh of underground
storage for natural gas 2. PtM can be applied for the conversion of industrial andor biogenic CO2
to CH4. Overall, application of PtM can integrate the renewable power grid with biomethanenautral
gas grid, which will oer exibility to the electricity grid while aiding decarbonization of other sectors
3.


---

Description:
Produced from CO2 in the PtM process to increase the overall output from biogas plants.

Text:
It is estimated that by 2050 about 150 TWh (14 bcm natural gas equivalent) of PtM could be
produced in the EU using biogenic CO2 captured from biogas plants combined with locally produced
H2 using electricity from solar and wind power 4. The application of PtM at a biogas plant is also a
substitute for the conventional biogas upgrading process, where CO2 is removed from the biogas to
increase its heating value. Whereas, using PtM the CO2 is utilized to produce CH4 that increases the
heating value and the overall CH4 output from biogas plant. Several studies have shown the exsitu biomethanation using biotrickling lter (BTF) as a feasible
technology for PtM and for the biogas upgrading 58.


---

Description:
Produced at a relatively higher volumetric rate in BTF compared to other biomethanation technologies.

Text:
The BTF is a 3 phase reactor where the HM
are grown over a packing material as biolm, the gaseous substrates (H2 and CO2) pass over the
biolm, and the liquid nutrient media is trickled over the packed bed to supply the nutrients. The
solubility of H2 is approx. 40 times lower than CO2 and the overall process is mass transfer limited
9. The arrangement of HM over a packing material oers a relatively large surface area for the mass
transfer of gaseous substrates that results in higher mass transfer rates. The main advantage of BTF
is the relatively higher volumetric rate of CH4 production as compared to the other biomethanation
technologies.
