Description:
Compounds involved in rearrangement reactions, converting primary allylic silanols into secondary ones.

Text:
Rearrangement reactions have been a topic of interest to 
the synthetic community for more than a century,1 but only 
recently have they become a line of investigation in our 
laboratory.2 In general, rearrangements can be demarcated into 
two categories. One contains true pericyclic processes, which 
are concerted and proceed through cyclic transition states37; 
such reactions often require vigorous heating or the addition of 
Lewis acid additives. Another class of rearrangement reactions 
is comprised of those that proceed through discrete 
organometallic intermediates.812 
Our laboratory recently disclosed the first rearrangement 
reaction of primary allylic silanols into secondary ones (Scheme 
1).2 Strictly speaking, this reaction was a formal rearrangement 
and required a twostep, twopot protocol.


---

Description:
Primary compounds transformed into 6-membered silanediol organomercurial heterocycles.

Text:
First, primary allylic 
silanols were transformed into 6membered silanediol 
organomercurial heterocycles using a combination of Hg(OTf)2 
and 
NaHCO3.13 
Following 
purification 
by 
silicagel 
chromatography, treatment of these heterocycles with 1M 
aqueous HCl in THF or with NaBH4 in DMF allowed for 
demercurative cleavage into secondary silanol products bearing 
terminal alkenes. We sought to develop true, onepot rearrangement 
reactions of primary allylic silanol substrates. Our investigations 
were 
motivated 
by 
both 
fundamental 
and 
applied 
considerations. Our laboratory has furnished the only 
precedent for the rearrangements of silanol substrates, and we 
thus felt that further investigation of this fascinating substrate 
class1416 was warranted.


---

Description:
Can be rearranged into 5-membered silanediol organomercurial heterocycles or into linear organomercurial ketones.

Text:
Furthermore, organomercurial 
compounds are known valuable synthons (Scheme 2).17, 18 The 
CHg bond is a highly unusual organometallic linkage with 
essentially covalent character.19 CHg bonds are known 
precursors for carboncentered radicals and can be facilely 
transformed into CC, CO, and CI bonds.20, 21 We wondered if 
we could build on our previous work to furnish technology for a 
rearrangementremercuration of primary allylic silanols into 
organomercurial synthons. Here, we are pleased to report that, 
though careful control of reaction conditions, allylic silanols can 
be rearranged into 5membered silanediol organomercurial 
heterocycles or into linear organomercurial ketones (Scheme 
1). To our knowledge, no analogous transformation exists in the 
literature. a. Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, 
United States, 66047 
b.
