Description:
Involved in PHIP-SABRE experiments where its spin order is an important factor.

Text:
The 
SABRE method can be used to enhance NMR signals of protons6, 
7, and insensitive nuclei such as 15N and 13C 815 and to polarize 
various molecules, notably, biomolecules1618, metabolites19 
and drugs2022. Both hydrogenative PHIP and SABRE have been successfully 
applied to hyperpolarize various compounds; however, the 
optimization of hyperpolarization experiments still remains 
challenging. Specifically, reaction conditions have to be 
optimized, as well as polarization transfer efficiency. In this 
work, we address one more issue, which turns out to be 
important in both PHIP and SABRE. Specifically, we address the 
question What is the spin order of H2 in PHIPSABRE 
experiments?.


---

Description:
Undergoes singlet-triplet conversion when its magnetic or chemical equivalence is broken.

Text:
At the first glance, this question seems to make 
no sense, as we always introduce pH2, i.e., two protons in the 
nuclear singlet spin state, into the chemical reaction. However, 
this obvious answer holds only in the gas phase, where 
conversion between pH2 and triplet H2 (orthohydrogen, oH2) is 
a very slow process. For the actual PHIP and SABRE processes 
the answer is not so obvious because pH2 binds to a PHIP 
substrate or SABRE catalyst in such a way that the two protons 
occupy nonequivalent positions. In this situation, their 
magnetic or chemical equivalence is broken and singlettriplet 
conversion in H2 becomes operative.


---

Description:
Can be formed in a strongly nonequilibrium state as hyperpolarized oH2.

Text:
It is important to note that 
the conversion is not equivalent to a simple decay of singlet spin 
order via relaxation, since hyperpolarized oH2 can be formed in 
a strongly nonequilibrium state, as has been confirmed by 
several groups2325. The aim of this work is to study in detail spin conversion of H2 
and to characterize its actual spin state. Here we perform the 
study for a SABRE system (using an Irbased catalyst) and 
measure the SABREderived enhancement of 15N spins. By 
introducing radiofrequency pulses on the proton channel 
a International Tomography Center and Novosibirsk State University, 
b NVisionImaging Technologies, Ulm, Germany
 these authors have contributed equally.
