Description:
Molecular oxygen is used in optical sensors that rely on quenching of luminescence.

Text:
Widely applied optical oxygen sensors rely on quenching of the luminescence of an indicator by 
molecular oxygen.1 Although the stateoftheart sensors are well suited for most applications and 
some are commercially available, there is still considerable interest for further improvements in 
applications like trace or ultratrace sensing2 or measurements under harsh conditions (high pressures, 
temperatures, presence of organic solvents etc. ).3,4 Conventional sensors are made in the form of 
planar foils or of fibreoptic setups and are commonly prepared by immobilization of molecular 
indicators into an oxygenpermeable matrix that acts as a support and solvent for the dye and a 
permeationselective membrane. This is also true for nanoparticlebased oxygen probes used in 
biological and medical research,5 but indicators conjugated to proteins6 and peptides7,8 proved very 
successful alternatives.


---

Description:
A gas whose permeability in matrices affects the sensitivity of optical sensors.

Text:
The performance of matriximmobilized sensors is mainly determined by the 
properties of the indicator (spectral properties, photostability, luminescence decay time) and the 
matrix (chemical stability, oxygen permeability, permeation selectivity). Compatibility of both 
materials is important since aggregation of the indicator negatively affects the sensor performance. The sensitivity of optical oxygen sensors is mainly governed by two parameters luminescence decay 
time of the indicator and oxygen permeability of the matrix.9 Considerably long decay times are 
required to achieve sufficient sensitivities in common matrices which explains why fluorescent dyes, 
popular in the early era of oxygen sensor development,1,10 are rarely used nowadays.


---

Description:
Molecular oxygen interacts with dyes when adsorbed or immobilized on porous materials.

Text:
In a different approach, the indicators are physically adsorbed16 or 
covalently13 immobilized onto the surface of porous materials such as silicagel13 or mesoporous 
silica17,18 where the dye is fully accessible to the interaction with molecular oxygen. Another promising way to construct in first sight matrixfree indicators is to incorporate the dyes 
into metalorganic frameworks (MOFs).


---

Description:
A gas that can be quantified using MOFs due to their high porosity and accessibility to gases.

Text:
MOFs are typically crystalline materials that generally 
consist of metal nodes and organic linkers and are usually characterized by an extremely high 
porosity.19 The great variety of organic linkers and metal nodes enables a huge structural diversity of 
MOFs, including the synthesis of luminescent variants.20 Due to the permanent porosity and high 
accessibility to gases in the framework, these materials are promising for sensing applications21 
including oxygen quantification.22 The oxygen sensingunit can be either a structural element of the 
porous network or, alternatively, be incorporated into the pores during synthesis23 or via post
synthetic incubation.24 Incorporation into the pores during synthesis does not allow for much control 
over the distribution of the indicator dye within the framework that is reflected in distinctly nonlinear 
SternVollmer plots due to different oxygen accessibilities within the crystal.23 Additionally, such 
materials may be prone to leaching of the indicator out of the pores although it can be minimized via 
design of the pore structure.25 On the other hand, incorporation of a sensing element as a MOF 
building block not only eliminates leaching but also potential aggregation of dyes that may negatively 
affect the luminescent and sensing properties.
