Description:
Used in lithium-ion batteries for high energy densities and stable capacity retention.

Text:
Cheap, highperformance, and safe energy storage solutions are 
needed to address the increasing demand for portable electronics 
and the transition to electric mobility. Lithiumion batteries have 
replaced conventional secondary battery technology (like nickel
cadmium and nickelmetal hydride batteries) due to their high 
energy densities, high operating voltages, and stable capacity 
retention during opencircuit rest.1 Lithium metal anodes were 
quickly replaced by lithiumintercalated graphitic materials in 
order to avoid the formation of dendrites that resulted in short 
circuiting of the two electrodes.


---

Description:
Metallic lithium has a high energy density.

Text:
However, while lithiumgraphite 
intercalates are safer and more stable they have only a tenth of 
the energy density of metallic lithium.2 Silicon is a good active 
material for Liion anodes because it has a superior theoretical 
capacity of 3579 mA h g1 (or 8340 mA h cm3) for Li15Si4, and  
unlike some transition metals  it is not toxic and abundant.


---

Description:
Prevents the formation of metallic lithium around the anode during discharging in Li-graphite batteries.

Text:
Moreover, its alloying reaction with lithium triggered at 0.3 V vs. 
LiLi, prevents the formation of metallic lithium around the anode 
during discharging  a detrimental process observed for Li
graphite batteries known as lithium plating  and allows the use 
of SiLi electrodes under harsher conditions.3 The large number 
of lithium atoms that silicon can store, however, induces large 
volume changes during chargedischarge cycles (300).3 The 
mechanical stress induced by these drastic volume changes 
leads to the pulverization of the silicon active material, loss of 
contact of the electrode film with the current collector, and loss of 
overall mechanical integrity of the whole electrode. Repeated 
cycles of expansion and contraction of silicon expose pristine 
silicon surfaces and induce the reformation of solid electrolyte 
interfaces (SEI).


---

Description:
Gradually consumed and limits the diffusion of charge carriers in the SEI.

Text:
This process contributes to the gradual 
consumption of lithium and electrolyte, and it limits the diffusion of 
charge carriers through the expanding SEI.34 It is difficult to 
counter these detrimental mechanical and chemical changes to 
siliconbased electrodes because conventional methods of 
electrode assembly rely on the mixing of multiple components that 
are held together by weak, dispersive forces. In laboratory settings, some strategies were developed to address 
the inherent flaws of these multicomponent assemblies. For 
example, shaping silicon into hierarchical, nanosized, or porous 
structures buffers some of its dramatic volume expansion during 
lithiation.4d On the downside, nanostructured silicon is 
susceptible to restructuring during battery operation, and its larger 
specific surface promotes reactions with the electrolyte to form 
more of electrochemically inactive SEI.
