Description:
A protein-binding membrane used in assays to assess ligand binding.

Text:
One of the most successful experimental approaches suitable for 
screening of a large number of candidate receptors for binding with candidate small 
ligand is the differential radial capillary action of ligand assay (DRaCALA), which 
does not require purification of the expressed protein, but uses whole bacterial cell 
lysates containing plasmidexpressed candidate gene products 36. Thereby, small 
ligand binding to a protein is assessed by the spot intensity and diameter upon 
spotting the protein extract containing ligand onto a proteinbinding nitrocellulose 
membrane. Binding of the radioactive ligand to the macromolecule creates a small 
intensive spot reflecting the protein location, while, upon nonbinding, the ligand 
signal is more extended, but overall equally intensive reflecting the free ligand 
distribution over a larger spot area created by capillary forces.


---

Description:
A membrane used in binding assays for detecting ligand-protein interactions.

Text:
A radioactive ligand, as in the originally described approach, needs to be prepared and 
labeling is not necessarily readily applicable to every small molecular compound. However, MALDITOF MS or imaging mass spectrometry can be used to detect 
binding of a ligand to a protein receptor on the nitrocellulose membrane. Thereby, 
assessment of binding can be achieved by measuring the ligand concentration at the 
application spot and at the edge of the larger spot area that the liquid reached by 
capillary action (Fig. 1).


---

Description:
A membrane material used for spotting and drying samples.

Text:
18 l cell lysate and 2 l 10 M cdiGMP were 
mixed, incubated 10 min at room temperature and 2 l were spotted on a 
nitrocellulose membrane (Schleicher  Schuell ProtanTM, BA85). After the 
membrane had completely dryed, equally sized membrane pieces at the application 
spot and the edge of the diffused liquid were cut out with a scalpel. 2 l 5 mgml 
alphacyano4hydroxycinnamic acid matrix in 50 acetonitrile and 0.05
