Description:
A metal known for its low density and high specific strength, making it suitable for aerospace and automotive applications.

Text:
Metal Matrix Composites (MMCs) can be considered lightweight structural materials that 
were developed in the 1990s for meeting the requirements in aerospace applications 13. They have strong potential to replace cast iron and other materials in brakes and engines due 
to their high strength to weight ratio, low density, high fatigue, wear and creep resistance, and 
at last hightemperature strength retention 45. Magnesium and its alloys have attracted 
much attention in scientific development and as well as in various commercial applications 
because of their low density and high specific strength in comparison to other structural 
metals. In aerospace and automotive applications these properties order to reduce weight, 
greenhouse emission, and fuel consumption 68.


---

Description:
Limited in application due to poor creep resistance at high temperatures.

Text:
But due to their poor creep resistance 

behavior at high temperatures, the application of magnesium and its alloys are limited. So in 
order to overcome these limitations and to improve the properties, reinforcements are 
incorporated 910. Dinaharan et al. 11 reinforced titanium particles (0, 7, 14, and 21 vol 
) into an AZ31 magnesium alloy by friction stir processing method. The obtained results 
showed enhanced tensile strength and good ductility in the manufactured composite. Say et 
al. 12 investigated the corrosion resistance and mechanical properties of AZ91 and AZ61 
magnesium matrix composites reinforced with 01, 0.2, and 0.5 wt carbon nanotubes 
(CNTs). It was observed that with the increasing amount of carbon nanotubes, the strength of 
composites increases.


---

Description:
Used as a base metal in the fabrication of Metal Matrix Composites (MMCs).

Text:
In recent work, the squeeze casting process has been used for fabricating the magnesium
based Metal Matrix Composites (MMCs). In the next sections, the experimental procedure 
and results obtained will be further discussed.
