Description:
A decentralized, low CAPEX synthesis process targeted at emerging markets.

Text:
It would provide critical technological 
support towards the audacious goal of carbonfree growth and 
ensuring the green transition. Two indispensable targets would be 
reached simultaneously, where renewable energy penetration is 
arduous  food production and clean mobility4,9. A decentralized, low 
CAPEX NH3 synthesis process targeted at emerging markets with 
significant future population growth needs would also support the 
core U.N. sustainability goals. While direct electrochemical ammonia production represents the 
Holy Grail, the documented yields remain very far from any kind of 
commercialization10. The discovery of efficient heterogeneous or 
homogeneous catalysts that exhibit high activity under mild 
conditions would thus be a key enabler for the decentralized 
production of green ammonia.


---

Description:
Synthesis is challenging under lower temperatures and pressures.

Text:
For industrial ammonia synthesis, it is 
widely recognized that Rubased catalysts work better than Febased 
catalysts under milder reaction conditions 11,12. However, the high 
activation energy for direct N2 dissociation and the severe poisoning 
effect of hydrogen on conventional Ru metal catalyst renders 
efficient NH3 synthesis under lower temperatures ( 623 K) and lower 
pressures ( 50 bar) unattainable13. Therefore, many attempts to 
develop new catalysts for efficiently catalyzing N2H2 to NH3 under 
mild conditions1417. Recently discovered, a new class of ammonia 
catalysts  the ternary ruthenium complex hydrides18 is a 
breakthrough in this endeavor.


---

Description:
Produced at low temperature by selective N2 activation in the presence of ternary ruthenium complex hydrides.

Text:
In this paper, we present the reaction mechanism facilitating ternary 
ruthenium complex hydrides to successfully produce NH3 at low 
temperature (448 K  T  573 K) by selective N2 activation and 
escaping H2 oversaturation. This work shows the unique ability of 
the RuH64 catalytic center in the ternary ruthenium hydride to shift 
its ratedetermining intermediate states and transition states of the 
N2H2 to NH3 reaction path in response to the lowering of the 
reaction temperature, which brings a significant change in reaction 
order of hydrogen and ammonia. This variation in the kinetics as a 
function of operating conditions (temperature, reactant partial 
pressures, etc.) is not a common phenomenon in catalysis but is 
observed in some cases 1923.
