Description:
A critical chemical in food production and a potential carbon-free energy carrier.

Text:
Ammonia is critical to our food production ecosystem1,2 and the 
single most produced polluting chemical (170 million tons per 
year)35, while also holding the potential to become one of the most 
promising carbonfree and lowcost long term energy carrier6,7. The 
industrial HaberBosch (HB) process employs a Febased catalyst, 
fossilfuel sourced H2, and requires harsh operating conditions 
(typically 673723 K and 100300 bar of pressure). The largescale 
and centralized HB process accounts for nearly 2 of the worlds 
consumption of fossil fuels8, and consequently over 1.44 of the 
global anthropogenic CO2 emissions5. The development of small
scale processes that rely on renewable electricity as an energy source 
to sustainably produce the H2 feedstock would thus be 
transformative in several ways.


---

Description:
The target of direct electrochemical production, though yields are not yet commercially viable.

Text:
It would provide critical technological 
support towards the audacious goal of carbonfree growth and 
ensuring the green transition. Two indispensable targets would be 
reached simultaneously, where renewable energy penetration is 
arduous  food production and clean mobility4,9. A decentralized, low 
CAPEX NH3 synthesis process targeted at emerging markets with 
significant future population growth needs would also support the 
core U.N. sustainability goals. While direct electrochemical ammonia production represents the 
Holy Grail, the documented yields remain very far from any kind of 
commercialization10. The discovery of efficient heterogeneous or 
homogeneous catalysts that exhibit high activity under mild 
conditions would thus be a key enabler for the decentralized 
production of green ammonia.


---

Description:
Synthesized industrially using catalysts under milder reaction conditions.

Text:
For industrial ammonia synthesis, it is 
widely recognized that Rubased catalysts work better than Febased 
catalysts under milder reaction conditions 11,12. However, the high 
activation energy for direct N2 dissociation and the severe poisoning 
effect of hydrogen on conventional Ru metal catalyst renders 
efficient NH3 synthesis under lower temperatures ( 623 K) and lower 
pressures ( 50 bar) unattainable13. Therefore, many attempts to 
develop new catalysts for efficiently catalyzing N2H2 to NH3 under 
mild conditions1417. Recently discovered, a new class of ammonia 
catalysts  the ternary ruthenium complex hydrides18 is a 
breakthrough in this endeavor.


---

Description:
Produced with superior activities through the dynamic and synergistic engagement of ternary hydride components.

Text:
The ternary ruthenium hydrides 
ability to efficiently synthesize NH3 at 10 bar and  573 K conditions 
lies in the unique chemistry of the coordination complex and the 
alkali (alkaline earth) metal framework, facilitating a catalytic 
mechanism bridging homogeneous and heterogeneous concepts, 
which are clearly distinct from the Ru metal catalyst. For ternary Ru 
complex hydride catalysts, Ru is in an ionic state, and N2 undergoes 
nondissociative hydrogenolysis over the hydride(H)rich and 
electronrich RuH64 complex with the aid of the surrounding Li or 
Ba cations. The dynamic and synergistic engagement of all the 
components of the ternary hydrides creates a reaction path with a 
narrow energy span and leads to ammonia production with superior 
activities.
