Description:
A rare earth metal, number 92 on the periodic table.

Text:
Nanoparticles are small particles with critical dimensions ranging from 1 to 100 nm. Additionally, these particles are composed of interfacial layers. Materials constructed as 
nanostructures provide novel performance and new properties. Hence, with each new property 
constructed, each material will contain unique characteristics and critical length associated with 
the desired material.1Solid nanoparticles form crystal structures through a specific arrangement of 
atoms. They have a longrange order which stems from the regularity of crystal arrangement 
extending through the crystal.1 
The periodic table contains numerous elements leaving scientists with the daunting task to 
construct nanoparticles each day. This experiment will solely focus on the nano construction of 
the rare earth metal, uranium. Uranium is number 92 on the periodic table.


---

Description:
A rare earth metal located in the actinide series with the ability to donate ions.

Text:
It is considered a rare earth metal, located in 
the actinide series. Due to this element containing natural characteristics in earth one can infer 
uranium can provide positive benefits for the earth due to its structure and ability to donate ions.


---

Description:
An element that exists in four different oxidation states: 3, 4, 5, and 6.

Text:
Currently, uranium compounds are being studied more closely due to their potentiality in 
benefiting environmental safety in maximizing the utilization of limited sources.24 
Upon studying uranium, the uranium framework contains linear structure ions and donor 
ions, through this characteristic one can confirm the donor atoms from the organic ligands will 
display uranyl equatorial positions which give rise to clusters, 1D chains, or 20 layers.510 The 
challenge with this element stems from the element displaying different physical and chemical 
properties existing in four different oxidation states of 3, 4, 5, 6. The oxidation states of 3 
and 5 are very stable, leading this earth metal to exist in oxidation phase UO2, U3O8, and U3O11.
