Description:
A material that can be nanomilled to produce nanodiamonds, which are biocompatible and can be functionalized for targeting specific cells or proteins.

Text:
Due to their large surface area, NVrich, fluorescent nanodiamonds (NDs) are promising 
candidates for such applications 7,15,21. Moreover, NDs are biocompatible, and their surface 
can be functionalized to target specific cells or proteins 2931. NDs can be internalized by living 
cells, thus probing the microenvironment in subcellular compartments 32,33. Furthermore, 13C 
enrichment of NDs is desirable to improve the hyperpolarization efficiency for contrast agents, 
quantum sensing and magnetic resonance signal enhancement 34. Several techniques have been proposed for the production of NDs, including nanomilling 35 of 
bulk diamond, detonation diamond 36,37 and highpower laser ablation 38,39. Detonation 
NDs tend to be small (510 nm) and rich in impurities 36.


---

Description:
A material that can be nanomilled to control concentration of defects and NV centers, as well as particle size, with good production yield.

Text:
Highpower laser ablation can produce 
fluorescent NDs in a singlestep process 38,39, but the yield is insufficient for practical 
application. Conversely, nanomilling of bulk diamond makes it possible to control concentration 
of defects and NV centers, as well as particle size, with good production yield 40. Increasing the surface area of the material by nanomilling can improve exposure of shallow NV 
centers to the external environment. However, it inevitably affects NV charge stability 41, as 
surface effects tend to favor the NV0 charge state, which does not present useful spin properties 
1113. As a result, NDs present larger relative concentration of NV0 in NDs compared to the 
starting material.


---

Description:
Contains NV centers that undergo photoconversion influenced by nitrogen defects and surface acceptor states.

Text:
Laser light used to polarize and interrogate NV centers can also induce charge switching between 
NV and its neutral form NV0 27,4247. Photoconversion depends on the presence of nitrogen 
defects and surface acceptor states, and thus both NV  NV0 and NV0  NV photoconversion 
routes have been observed in different diamond samples. Recently, we have shown that 
increasing laser power can substantially increase the availability of shallow NV produced by
