Description:
A widely used chemical in industry known to be toxic and a carcinogen.

Text:
Benzene is a widely used chemical in indus
try, but it is known to be toxic and a car
cinogen.1 In addition to regulating industrial
occupational exposure,2 benzene content in
gasoline and its emission from traffic are con
cerns for public health.3 In addition to time
spent in a car or in traffic, personal exposure
is affected by sources such as tobacco smoke
and residential garages.46 The current per
missible occupation exposure limit is around
1 ppm or below, depending on the regulatory
body. The recommended exposure level by
the US National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health is significantly lower at
100 ppb and the Committee for Risk Assess
ment of the European Chemical Agency has
recommended an occupation exposure limit
of only 50 ppb.


---

Description:
A compound for which high sensitivity trace gas detectors are in high demand for accurate monitoring with a subppb detection limit needed.

Text:
For ambient exposure, the
European commission has set a target limit
value of 1.5 ppb, evaluated as a yearly aver
age. High sensitivity trace gas detectors for
benzene are thus in high demand and for ac
curate monitoring a subppb detection limit
is needed for accurate quantification. High sensitivities well below 1 ppb can be
reached with gas chromatography techniques,7
but the measurements can be time consum
ing and the best performance often requires
offline or offsite analysis with a separate sam
pling step.8 Optical methods based on spec
troscopic detection are an appealing alterna
tive.


---

Description:
Detected using spectroscopic detectors with high sensitivity and selectivity.

Text:
Optical spectrometers are often more
compact and more readily develop into field
capable instruments and autonomous onsite
detectors for continuous monitoring.9 Some
chemical sensors, such as metal oxide sensors,
photoionization detectors and electrochemi
cal sensors, are starting to reach high sensi
tivities for benzene,10 but spectroscopic de
tectors offer better selectivity and longterm
stability. Various spectroscopic benzene detectors have
achieved detection limits down to ppblevels. However, many use the strong absorption band
at the wavelength of approximately 3 m for
detection,1114 which has significant overlap
with many other organic compounds, most
notably other simple aromatic combounds,
e.g. toluene and xylenes.


---

Description:
Detected at ppb levels using cantilever enhanced photoacoustic spectroscopy (CEPAS).

Text:
These are com
mon interferents in benzene measurements
and the requirement to properly account for
their presence can degrade the performance
of the detector substantially.14 Another strong
absorption band at 14.8 m has also been
used for ppblevel benzene detection,15,16 but
previously a long preconcentration time of
40 min was required for single digit ppb mea
surements.15
In our previous publication, we were able
to reach a subppb detection limit without
preconcentration, but only with a long aver
aging times of approximately 20 min.17 The
high sensitivity was reached using cantilever
enhanced photoacoustic spectroscopy (CEPAS)
for detection.18 In CEPAS, the photoacoustic
signal is recorded with an opticallyread can
tilever microphone, which leads to increased
sensitivity compared to conventional diaphragm
microphones.
