Description:
Cyclobutane derivatives can boost metabolic stability and reduce lipophilicity.

Text:
Strained cycloalkanes displaying an aminomethylsubstituent 
are common features in pharmaceutical candidates and approved 
drugs, as well as agrochemicals. These small polar scaffolds fre
quently convey important physical features that lead enhanced bio
logical properties, when compared with linear Nalkyl congeners. (Fig. 1A).1 In particular, cyclopropane and cyclobutane derivatives 
can boost metabolic stability and reduce lipophilicity when used as 
bioisosteres of gemdimethyl, isopropyl or phenyl groups, which re
sults from a combination of high coplanarity of the ringcarbon at
oms, relatively shorter CC bonds, enhanced character and 
shorter and stronger CH bonds.


---

Description:
Less commonly used in Pd(II)catalyzed C(sp3)H functionalization strategies.

Text:
Yu and coworkers have reported a series of Pd(II)
C(sp3)H functionalization reactions on cyclopropane derivatives 
directed by Narylcarboxamides,4a,b Ntriflamides,4c carboxylic ac
ids,4d and primary amines,4e many of which can be rendered enanti
oselective. Cramer and coworkers exploited oxidative addition to a 
pendant bromoarene motif to direct intramolecular Pd(0)catalyzed 
C(sp3)H arylation onto triflimideprotected Narylaminomethyl
cyclopropanes.5a This approach was also extended to a number of 
other tethering units to formulate an approach to the synthesis of bi
cyclic systems containing a substituted cyclopropane unit and, in 
many cases, could be carried out enantioselectively.5cd Liang and co
workers reported an Ircatalyzed C(sp3)H borylation directed by a 
carboxamide motif.6 
In contrast, the deployment of Pd(II)catalyzed C(sp3)H func
tionalization strategies on cyclobutane scaffolds is less common (Fig 
1B).


---

Description:
Extended from cyclopropanes for C(sp3)H arylation frameworks.

Text:
Yu and coworkers were able to extend their seminal carbox
amidedirected C(sp3)H arylation of cyclopropanes to the corre
sponding cyclobutane frameworks.7ac Subsequent advances enabled 
the deployment of native carboxylic acids,7d ketones (via transiently 
generated imines)7e and oximes7f as directing groups for a selection 
of C(sp3)H functionalization reactions, many of which could, again, 
be rendered enantioselective using a range of ligandcontrolled strat
egies.
