Description:
Strained cycloalkanes with aminomethyl substituents are common in pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals.

Text:
Strained cycloalkanes displaying an aminomethylsubstituent 
are common features in pharmaceutical candidates and approved 
drugs, as well as agrochemicals. These small polar scaffolds fre
quently convey important physical features that lead enhanced bio
logical properties, when compared with linear Nalkyl congeners. (Fig. 1A).1 In particular, cyclopropane and cyclobutane derivatives 
can boost metabolic stability and reduce lipophilicity when used as 
bioisosteres of gemdimethyl, isopropyl or phenyl groups, which re
sults from a combination of high coplanarity of the ringcarbon at
oms, relatively shorter CC bonds, enhanced character and 
shorter and stronger CH bonds.


---

Description:
Rigid structures with welldefined exit vectors, ideal as scaffold candidates.

Text:
Furthermore, the welldefined exit 
vectors of these rigid cycloalkanes make them ideal as scaffold can
didates through which to probe distinct spatial environments, par
ticularly through their deployment as single enantiomers.2 As a result 
of these properties, the preparation of functionally diverse nonrace
mic aminomethylcyclopropanes (AMCPs) and aminomethylcy
clobutanes (AMCBs) represents an important challenge for chemi
cal synthesis.


---

Description:
Strained cycloalkane frameworks can undergo metal-catalyzed C(sp3)H functionalization.

Text:
While the synthesis of simple unfunctionalized variants 
of aminomethylstrained cycloalkanes can be achieved via Nalkyla
tion, reductive amination or amide reduction with readily available 
strained cycloalkanecontaining starting materials, the synthesis of 
more complex, densely functionalized variants frequently requires 
multiple steps as a result of the problematic amine functionality that 
precludes the effective use many of the wellestablished ring for
mation protocols.3 
Metalcatalyzed C(sp3)H functionalization of simple mono
functionalized strained cycloalkane frameworks has emerged as a 
powerful alternative strategy (to de novo methods3) for the synthesis 
of higher order variants, in particular, on cyclopropane scaffolds 
(Fig. 1B).
