Description:
Ion used in high energy density electrodes and electrolyte materials for high cationic conduction and high voltages.

Text:
Recently, sodium ion conductors have been reported to
be promising for energy storage applications because the
Na ion has a very similar intercalation chemistry to the
Li ion and, in some cases, the Na ionic radius is more
suitable for stabilizing fast ion conducting frameworks
because of its larger size compared with the Li ionic ra
dius. Thus, the development of sodium ion conducting
ASSB working at ambient temperatures is gaining re
newed attention. Recently, a unique class of heterostructures known as
honeycomb layered oxides has gained attention as high
energydensity electrodes and electrolyte materials for
their rich crystal chemistry that provides high cationic
conduction and high voltages using Na and K ions 15
27.


---

Description:
An alkali metal atom.

Text:
The general formula of this series of materials is
A2M2DO6, A3M2DO6 or A4MDO6, where M can be
divalent or trivalent transition metal atoms such as Cr,
Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, or some combination thereof; D rep
kartik.saugmail.com
resents pentavalent or hexavalent metal atoms such as
Sb, Te, or Bi; and A can be alkali metal atoms such as
Li, Na, or K 15, 28. The structure in general consists of
an array of parallel transition metal slabs with a distinct
honeycomb arrangement of multiple M atoms surround
ing D atoms in a layered framework of interposed A alkali
atoms. Specically, the tellurates in honeycomb layered
oxides have been reported to produce the highest voltages
(over 4V) to date 1618, 2023, 26.


---

Description:
A mobile ion in the A2M2TeO6 family that influences diffusion behavior.

Text:
Recently, we developed an
interatomic potential model for a family of fast ion
conductorsA2M2TeO6 (A  Li, Na, or K ; M  Ni,
Zn, Co, or Mg) 37, 38to perform MD studies that
represent the structural and dynamical properties re
ported in the experiments and present several interest
ing behaviors such as energydriven or entropydriven
diusion depending on the concentration of the mobile
ions. Our previous work on A2Ni2TeO6 (A  Li, Na, or
K) 38 showed how cationic distribution and the energy
landscape vary with increasing interlayer distance. The
study also showed that ionic conductivity increases expo
nentially with increasing interlayer distance. Moreover,
