Description:
Forms anions that are crucial for boosting chain growth and correcting defects in dynamic covalent chemistry.

Text:
Unlike those traditional 
dynamic covalent chemistry, such condensation involves the 
generation of active intermediates, such as, carbon anions, 
which is crucial for efficiently boosting chain growth and 
correcting defect through selfhealing processes for a COF1114. Typically, an available monomer bearing aryl carbon atoms, 
has to be enough electrondeficient for enhancing the proton 
acidity and stabilizing the reactive intermediate, commonly 
achieved by the introduction of multiple electronwithdrawing 
moieties, such as cyano group, pyridyl nitrogen1516. However, 
these modifications normally means a tedious preparation and 
the utilization of toxic reagent (e.g. NaCN or CuCN), 
meanwhile, significantly constrains the accessible reaction sites 
of a monomer, severely limiting its linking modes.


---

Description:
Atoms suitable for Knoevenagel condensation.

Text:
Correspondingly, on the basis of very few monomers, vinylene
linked COFs with hexagonal crystal system occupied the major 
ratio, and several singlepore orthorhombic skeletons were 
originating 
from 
the 
ditopic 
monomer 
1,4
phenylenediacetonitrile17. While, a monomer with more 
carbon atoms ( 4) suitable for Knoevenagel condensation 
could not be found so far. Pyridyl nitrogencontaining molecules are widely used in 
catalysis, 
supramolecular 
chemistry, 
and 
organic 
semiconducting materials, associated with their intrinsic Lewis 
basicity, substantial physical properties, and selfassembling 
behaviors18. Knoevenagel reaction holds some merits in the 
preparation of vinylenelinked pyridinebased small molecules 
or linear conjugated polymers using methylsubstituted 
pyridine, due to lowcost, environmentally friendly reagents, 
less unidentified reactive intermediates, and only transalkene 
formation1921. Unfortunately, the mechanism of such traditional 
reaction seems never to be investigated.
