Description:
Forms single oxygen atoms on Al(111) surface when exposed to a small dosage of molecular oxygen.

Text:
On Al(111), ac
cording to scannning tunneling microscopy (STM) ex
periments, a small dosage of molecular oxygen exclusively
leads to single oxygen atoms separated by an average dis
tance of more than 80 A 7. Various mechanisms have
been proposed to explain this surprising results. For ex
ample, subsurface migration of single oxygen atoms has
been invoked 9. However, also a hot atomlike mecha
nism based on a cannonball abstraction process 10, 11
has been proposed. Firstprinciples based molecular dy
namics simulations including spin selection rules 12, 13
have been able to reproduce and explain the experimen
tally observed samm sticking probability at low kinetic
energies 14, 15, but have not found any indications
for the cannonball mechanism.


---

Description:
Atoms preferentially occupy lattice sites apart from each other after O2 dissociation.

Text:
On Pt(111), molecular
chemisorbed O2 molecules dissociate at higher tempera
tures with the oxygen atoms being preferentially to lat
tice sites apart from each other 8 which has also been
explained by a hot atom mechanism and conrmed in
kinetic Monte Carlo simulations 16. However, the direct identication of hot atom dynam
ics in reactions on surfaces by a combination of experi
ment and theory is hard to achieve. From an experimen
tal point of view this is due to the fact that the lifetime
of dynamical hot atom events is typically so short that
these events can not be directly detected.


---

Description:
Can adsorb both molecularly and dissociatively on Pt(111).

Text:
The adsorption and dissoci
ation of oxygen on platinum surfaces are of signicant
technological importance, as they not only constitute cru
cial reaction steps in the car exhaust catalyst 25, but
they are also relevant for the oxygen reduction reaction
in fuel cells in aqueous environments 2630. Molecular
oxygen can adsorb both molecularly and dissociatively on
Pt(111) 8, 31. At low surface temperatures, however,
oxygen does not directly dissociate on Pt(111), even if
impinging with high kinetic energies 8, 32, 33. Rather,
it rst adsorbs molecularly due to steric hindrance caused
by the shape of the underlying potential energy surface,
and only in a second step dissociates caused by thermal
uctuations, as demonstrated in tightbinding molecular
dynamics studies 34, 35.
