Description:
Reduced to water in the catalytic process of laccases.

Text:
Laccases are multicopper oxidases which catalyze oxidation of different substrates such as, 
e.g., pdiphenols, simultaneously reducing molecular oxygen to water. Laccases have been found 
in bacteria, fungi, plants, and insects. Starting from the 1990s, laccases have been studied by 
spectroscopic methods (Solomon et al., 1996) and then structures of laccases were determined by 
Xray crystallography (review of results up to 2015 in (Hakulinen  Rouvinen, 2015)). Laccases are globular proteins comprised of two or three domains of cupredoxin fold 
(Hakulinen  Rouvinen, 2015). Their active site includes four copper ions arranged in two 
separated centers the T1 copper site and the trinuclear copper cluster (TNC). Three types of 
copper ions (Abriata, 2012) in laccases were well established in earlier spectroscopic studies 
(Solomon et al., 1996; Cole et al., 1990).


---

Description:
Undergoes reduction at the TNC in the reaction O2  4e  4H  2H2O.

Text:
The TNC contains a triangle of closely located copper 
ions including a pair of T3 copper ions coordinated by three histidine residues each and one T2 
copper ion coordinated by two histidine residues. Electrons are accepted from substrate at the T1 
copper site. Via an electrontransfer chain the electrons are transferred to the TNC where 
molecular oxygen reduction reaction O2  4e  4H  2H2O occurs (Solomon et al., 1996; 
Jones and Solomon, 2015). The TNC is connected to surrounding solvent via the T3 and T2 
channels clearly observed in structures as chains of water molecules (Fig 1 in Polyakov et al., 
2017). Molecular oxygen gets to the TNC through the T3 channel.


---

Description:
Involved in a two-electron reduction process at the TNC.

Text:
The molecular oxygen reduction at the TNC was considered in works by Solomon and 
coworkers (Cole et al., 1990; Jones and Solomon, 2015) based on spectroscopy and early Xray 
studies of ascorbat oxidase (Messerschmidt et al., 1992). It includes a couple of twoelectron 
reduction stages. Among the TNC states at the oxygen reduction, the following ones can be 
distinguished. In the fully reduced state of the TNC all three copper ions are reduced to charge 
1 and two oxygen ligands are involved (one between two T3 copper ions outside TNC and 
other one near the T2 copper ion in channel T2). The peroxy intermediate (PI) state includes 
deprotonated hydrogen peroxide located inside the copper ion triangle.
