Description:
Can alter the aroma profile of wines through various mechanisms.

Text:
20 
During any stage of winemaking, storage, and transport, oxidation has always been a major issue for winemakers 
21 
and consumers alike. Multiple previous studies have shown that oxygen can alter the aroma profile of wines 
22 
through an array of mechanisms, such as the quinonerelated reactions12 and the production of various carbonyl 
23 
compounds using hydroxyl free radicals as intermediates (the Fenton Reaction)24.


---

Description:
A gas that can cause rapid oxidation events in wine when exposed to an oxygen-rich atmosphere.

Text:
These changes tend to be 
24 
harmful to the overall aroma of white wines, as important volatiles such as esters and varietal thiols that endow 
25 
fruity attributes and varietal characters could be easily compromised.56 However, the focus of ageingrelated 
26 
oxidative studies of wine aroma is on the changes that occur after prolonged storage for months or years, 
27 
whereas the rapid oxidation events that occur in wine within several weeks of its exposure to an oxygenrich 
28 
atmosphere are not as widely studied. 29 
An indirect perspective to approach this rarely researched phenomenon is the consumption rates of oxygen in 
30 
O2enriched wine. For instance, Ferreira et al.


---

Description:
Exhibits a fast initial consumption rate in wines enriched with air.

Text:
reported that red wines enriched with oxygen from air (5.56.5 
31 
mgL dissolved O2) exhibited fast initial consumption rate of O2 (averaged as 3.82 mgL in the first day of 
32 
oxidation).7 A high initial consumption rate of O2 was similarly observed by the same group in white and rose 
33 
wines, with copper, flavonols, and hydroxycinnamic acids shown to be the determining factors of the O2 
34 
consumption rate.8 Such findings were corroborated more recently by Kontoudakis and Clark, in that copper can 
35 
drastically increase the rate of oxygen uptake in aerated wine within a short time frame.9 
36 
Additionally from the aroma perspective, Nikolantonaki and Waterhouse have reported that the firstorder 
37 
reaction constant  between 4methyl1,2benzoquinone (a model quinone) and an important varietal thiol, 3
38 
mercaptohexanol (3MH), is 0.0578 s1, corresponding to the halflife of 3MH in this reaction as 12.0 s (calculated 
39 
as 
ln 2
).10 Although in reality the rate of quinonethiol reactions would be governed by other external factors such 
40 
as the presence of antioxidants, varietal thiols react readily with oxidationinduced reactive species, which 
41 
subsequently leads to aroma loss.


---

Description:
A reactant that rapidly causes oxidation in wines, leading to sensory alterations.

Text:
Undesirable sulfurcontaining volatiles such as 2furanmethanthiol and 
42 
hydrogen sulfide may similarly react with quinones and form odorless quinonevolatile adducts, although with 
43 
slowers reaction rates.10 Also, Ferreira et al. tentatively identified the increased levels of some volatile phenols 
44 
as the endproducts of polyphenol oxidation using SPEGCMS.8 These studies illustrate how oxidation in wines 
45 
occurs rapidly following contact with oxygen, which is accompanied by a series of sensory alterations involving 
46 
aroma loss and formation. 47 
However, it remains unclear whether other important wine aroma compounds, such as esters, are so readily 
48 
affected by oxidationrelated reactions in wines exposed to air for a short time.
