Description:
An intermediate of fine chemicals used in the preparation of poly (phenyleneimine).

Text:
Therefore, its highly desired to find a 
suitable strategy that can increase the dipole moments and, hence, strengthen the IEF 
over the long range throughout whole bulk, in order to improve the efficiency of the CST 
process and the related photocatalytic performance in polymeric photocatalysts.10 
Inspired by the lattice distortion strategy, which was shown to be highly effective in 
enhancing IEF in the bulk TiO2 and BiPO4 system,11 the present study applied a similar 
lattice symmetrybreaking strategy on the typical crystalline conjugated polymers, poly
(phenyleneimine) (PPI). These faciletoprepare PPIs from the intermediates of fine 
chemicals (phenylenediamine and phthalaldehyde) possess identical functional groups, 
weak DA moieties, and quite different lattice symmetries.


---

Description:
Selected as a monomer to build PPIs.

Text:
The PPIs were synthesized via acetic acid catalyzed Schiff base reaction in the mixed 
solvents (see Supporting Information). pmphenylenediamine (PDAMDA) and pm
phthalaldehyde (PAHMAH) were selected as the monomers to build the PPIs, and three 
copolymers were referred to as PDAPAH, PDAMAH, and MDAMAH, respectively (Figure 
S1). As shown in the Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra (Figure S2), the identical 
bands of the three PPIs samples at 1640 cm1 clearly demonstrated that the imine (CN) 
bonds had formed by the Schiffbase condensation. The formation of CN bonds was 
further confirmed by Xray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) as N1s peaked at around 
398.8 eV in all the spectra (Figure S3 and S4).


---

Description:
Contains benzene rings with C atoms resonating during 100-160 ppm in 13C NMR spectra.

Text:
The resonances during 100160 ppm in 13C 
crosspolarization (CP) magicangle spinning (MAS) NMR spectra corresponded to the C 
atoms on the benzene rings from the phthalaldehyde and phenylenediamine moieties 
(Figure S5), confirming the substitution relationships on the benzene ring of the respective 
three PPIs. Noting that the resonances at around 150 ppm were attributed to the C atoms 
in the imine groups. To distinguish the bulk phase structures, three PPIs were characterized by powder Xray 
diffraction (PXRD). Both PDAPAH and PDAMAH were highly crystalline while MDAMAH
