Description:
Undergo bC(sp2)H sulfonylation with sulfinate salts mediated by copper.

Text:
and removal. Here we report the first use of a transient directing group in 
combination with copper to effect CH functionalization. The copper 
mediated bC(sp2)H sulfonylation of aldehydes with sulfinate salts is 
accomplished using alanine, in catalytic quantities, to form a 
transient imine. A broad range of sulfonylated benzaldehydes are 
prepared using copper fluoride as both copper source and oxidant, 
involving a 5,6 cupracyclic intermediate. The transient directing 
group provides exclusive regioselectivity in CH functionalization, 
even in the presence of other strongly coordinating Lewis basic 
groups. In addition, g(peri)sulfonylation of napthyl and phenanthrene 
carboxaldehydes is achieved through 6,6 cupracyclic intermediates. Further derivatisation of the aldehyde products is demonstrated.


---

Description:
Common valuable functional groups used in transient directing groups for CH functionalisation reactions.

Text:
Recently transient directing groups (TDGs) have been developed, 
notably for arylation processes, whereby the directing group is 
formed and removed within the CH functionalisation reaction by 
taking advantage of common valuable functional groups such as 
aldehydes (Figure 1a).3 Transient directing groups formed as 
imines have been used in particular to selectively functionalize 
aldehyde or amine components, though in a limited range of 
transformations to date.


---

Description:
Undergo benzylic and sp3 CH functionalization using cocatalytic palladium acetate and glycine.

Text:
A transient directing group approach was 
first described by Jun for the alkylation of aldehydic CH bonds.4 
In 2016, Yu reignited interest in this field by demonstrating 
powerful benzylic and sp3 CH functionalization of aldehydes and 
ketones respectively using cocatalytic palladium acetate and 
glycine to form a transient coordinating imine.5 In 2017, Yu 
reported 
the 
palladium 
catalyzed 
transient 
orthoCH 
functionalization 
of 
benzaldehydes, 
achieving 
arylation, 
bromination and chlorination with imines derived from anilines 
(Figure 1b).6 Contemporaneously, Sorensen developed C(sp2)
H hydroxylation, fluorination and methylation processes.7 
Noticeably there are no examples of CS bond formation using 
transient CH functionalization. Furthermore, the majority of 
transient directing groups use precious metal catalysis, mainly 
palladium, but also rhodium, ruthenium and iridium.3,8,9
