Description:
A diverse family of biological molecules synthesized by plants and microorganisms, providing a chemical space for renewable fuels.

Text:
Terpenes and their derivatives are a diverse 
family of biological molecules that provide a rich 
chemical space for finding renewable fuels with 
superior properties. Plants and microorganisms 
synthesize terpenes by combining units of isoprene 
(2methyl1,3butadiene). Products made from one 
isoprene (hemiterpenes; C5) are suitable as gasoline 
alternatives, while products from two isoprenes 
(monoterpenes; 
C10) 
and 
three 
isoprenes 
(sesquiterpenes; C15) can replace jet fuels and 
diesel fuels. Proposals for largescale production of 
terpenes include harvesting them from agricultural 
crops or from microorganisms growing in 
bioreactors 13. The compartmentalized nature of 
terpene biosynthesis provides opportunity to 
genetically engineer favored organisms such as 
Eucalyptus or E. coli to make any desired terpene, 
and to metabolically engineer yields that are beyond 
the natural baseline 4, 5.


---

Description:
Compounds with high energy densities due to their branched structure and ability to form rings.

Text:
The branched structure of 
isoprene causes most terpenes to have methyl side 
chains, which promotes favorable coldweather 
properties such as low melting points 6. The bio
synthesis process readily produces rings, including 
strained rings with carbon numbers as low as three, 
which gives terpenes high energy densities 6, 7. The biosynthesis process can also functionalize the 
terpenes by adding hydroxyl groups, carbonyls, 
ether bridges, etc. (These molecules are often 
termed terpenoids, but we will include them with 
terpenes.) For some applications, especially current 
aviation engines, oxygen and double bonds are not 
acceptable since they compromise energy density 
and storage stability; therefore terpenes must be 
hydrogenated to saturated hydrocarbons before they 
can be used as fuels 6.


---

Description:
Compounds that were custom synthesized for studying sooting tendencies in aviation fuels.

Text:
Sooting tendencies 
were measured with a yieldbased approach we 
developed recently 18, which offers several 
benefits compared to other approaches such as 
smoke point (SP) (1) it requires much smaller 
sample volumes, 100 L vs 10 mL 19; (2) it has 
a much wider dynamic range; and (3) the flames can 
be computationally simulated to test kinetic 
mechanisms and develop insight into the soot 
formation chemistry 20. The first benefit was 
critical to this study since the hydrogenated terpenes 
had to be custom synthesized. However, since SP is 
used as the sooting tendency metric in the ASTM 
standards for petroleumderived aviation fuels 19 
and synthetic aviation fuels 21, we derived a 
correlation between YSI and SP, and used it to 
estimate derived smoke points (DSP) for the 
terpenes.
