Description:
Used in catalysts for CH fluorination due to its nontoxicity, low cost, and environmentally friendly characteristics.

Text:
While late transition metals like 
palladium have been frequently used in experimental studies in the 
past6067, recent studies are shifting towards the use of catalysts 
containing manganese, iron, cobalt, nickel68, etc. as they show 
comparable or even better reactivity than the late transition metal 
catalysts60, 6971. Of the midrow 3d metal catalysts, manganese 
catalysts for CH fluorination look particularly attractive due to 
the nontoxicity of manganese, its relatively low cost, and 
environment friendly characteristics60, 
67, 
7274. Manganese 
enzymes75 found in nature can activate CH bonds with high 
dissociation energy, which led to development of bioinspired 
molecular catalysts60. Several experimental studies and few computational studies 
considered Mnporphyrin catalysts and Mnsalen catalysts to carry 
out CH halogenation, in particular, CH fluorination12, 7677.


---

Description:
Exists in different oxidation states in intermediates formed during a catalytic cycle.

Text:
Manganesecatalyzed oxidative benzylic CH fluorination was 
shown to be accomplished with better yields using Mnsalen 
catalysts2. Mnporphyrin complexes were found to catalyze 
selective aliphatic CH bond halogenations with remarkable 
yields for a certain range of organic substrates1, 76. However, our 
attempts to fluorinate druglike molecules (e.g., containing 
heterocycles with N or O atoms) under the same experimental 
conditions were excluded. The reasons for this inapplicability of 
the published procedures of synthesis to druglike molecules, as 
far as we know, are unclear. Manganese exists in different oxidation states in the intermediates 
formed during a catalytic cycle12, 76, 7881. The presence of unpaired 
d electrons indicates a possibility of multiple spin states for each 
intermediate.


---

Description:
A transition metal whose oxidation state and spin state are crucial in catalytic cycles.

Text:
While most experimental studies agree upon the 
coarse details of the mechanism, these studies disagree in terms of 
the oxidation state of manganese and the charge of the 
intermediates12, 76, 7881. Additionally, the literature on identifying 
the ground spin states of each of these intermediates in the 
catalytic cycle is sparse. A few computational studies considered 
some but not all the possible spin states for these intermediates82. The role of ground spin state is crucial because the reactivity of 
transition metal catalysts is known to be strongly spinstate 
dependent8393 with several molecular catalysts as well as enzymes 
preferring highspin (HS) intermediates during the reaction94102.


---

Description:
Exhibits different oxidation states in intermediates during the catalytic cycle, allowing for multiple spin states.

Text:
Manganese exhibits different oxidation states in the 
intermediates formed during the catalytic cycle which gives rise to 
the possibility of multiple spin states for each intermediate. In this 
work, we modeled all the intermediates in all possible spin states 
to identify the ground spin state for each intermediate.
