Description:
Molecules that weakly interact with most surfaces below room temperature and remain physisorbed.

Text:
Therefore, many works have been developed to increase the 
efficiency of the dissociation of NN bond, mostly by using 
heterogeneous catalysts, such as reactive metallic surfaces. 3,4 
Dissociation of N2 molecules is usually carried out at high 
temperature and high pressure because N2 molecules weakly 
interact with most surfaces below room temperature (RT), and 
remains physisorbed (i.e. nondissociated). The development of 
new strategies to dissociate N2 molecule under mild conditions 
is of critical interest.


---

Description:
Dissociates via hyperthermal collision on metal surfaces.

Text:
Moleculesurface collisions represent an 
interesting alternative because these collisional processes 
induce mechanochemical or electrontransfer reactions that 
promotes dissociation of reactants at low pressure and low 
temperature.5 The conversion of kinetic energy into vibrational 
excitation following the collision of molecules with a surface 
was mainly investigated for hydrocarbonbased species5ab, 
even if few examples of the dissociation of N2 using a supersonic 
molecular beam to overcome the dissociation barrier via an 
hyperthermal collision were also investigated on metal 
surfaces.5ef These vibrational excitations can lead to 
dissociative states of the incident molecules, and result into the 
adsorption of dissociated fragments.


---

Description:
An inert molecule for which no dissociation study using activated electron transfer on nonmetallic surfaces has been reported.

Text:
One of the main interests 
of this mechanochemical reactivity is to be carried out at low 
pressure, typically in ultrahigh vacuum, which allows the use of 
scanning probe microscopies to identify the adsorbed products 
resulting from the collisions. In the case of electrontransfer 
induced by molecular collision, a recent study showed that CO 
bond of CO2 molecules can be cleaved by a nonuniform charge 
transfer from the substrate to CO2 molecules due to the 
conversion of kinetic energy of incident CO2 molecules into 
molecular deformation.5i However, no study has been reported 
for the dissociation of inert molecules like N2 using a similar 
activated 
electrontransfer 
mechanism 
on 
nonmetallic 
surfaces.


---

Description:
An inert molecule whose collisional dissociation is achieved at very low pressure and room temperature on the Si(111)7x7 surface.

Text:
Here, we demonstrate that the collisional dissociation 
of N2 is successfully achieved at very low pressure and at room 
temperature on the Si(111)7x7 surface. The dissociation of N2 
was investigated by scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM), X
ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and density functional 
theory (DFT) calculations. This is the first report demonstrating 
that the Si(111)7x7 surface can be used for a facile dissociation 
of inert molecules, paving the way for the development of new 
surface chemistry. Results and discussion 
The choice of the surface plays a crucial role when seeking for 
an efficient approach to dissociate inert molecule like N2.
