Description:
Diastereomeric dimers of methyl apiose.

Text:
of ring torsion, 
consistent with the configurational changes required in 1a 
(Table S4). In addition to this ester, we observed two distinct 
minor components in the mixture, which exhibited identical 
coupling constants to 1a and existed in similar concentrations 
(ca. 11.2 
ratio). Based 
on 
the 
wellcharacterized 
diastereomeric borate ester dimers of methyl apiose 
described by Ishii and Ono57 and the report of purine 
nucleoside solubilization as 21 complexes with borate by 
Tsuji and colleagues,58 we tentatively ascribe these species 
as the cis and transisomers 1a (Figs. 1G and F). Overall, 
the Gibbs free energies obtained experimentally by NMR 
spectroscopy or equilibrium state calculations based on UV 
data ( ca. 32 kJ mol1, see the SI for details) are 
comparable to those obtained by DFT calculation.


---

Description:
A five-membered ester of Rib1P that is less favored than 1a.

Text:
Although 
an analogous sixmembered ester (and potentially its dimers) 
between the 3 and 5hydroxyl groups would introduce similar 
configurational changes to those ascribed to 1a, DFT 
calculations revealed that its formation is much less 
exothermic and consequently disfavored. Similarly, the 
analogous fivemembered borate ester of Rib1P is less 
favored than 1a (which is requisite for the observed 
equilibrium shift), as supported by DFT and NMR data (Figs. 1F and S10). Additionally, we observed no trace of dimers of 
Rib1P by NMR, which is likely a result of the highly disfavored 
formal 5 charge of these species.


---

Description:
Formed during phosphorolysis reactions and influenced by entropic effects.

Text:
Consequently, the 
formation of the borate ester 1a should be expected to 
dominate in direct competition during a phosphorolysis 
reaction, which we could confirm by subjecting phosphorolysis 
reaction mixtures with increasing borate concentrations to 
NMR analysis (Fig. S13). Further thermodynamic experiments 
indicated that this biased esterification is primarily driven by 
entropic effects. Arrhenius plots of the 1a1a equilibrium 
obtained by 
1H NMR revealed a drastic temperature
dependence, favoring the presence of the free nucleoside at 
higher temperatures (Fig. S11). In support of these 
observations, Arrhenius plots for the borate esterification 
derived from equilibrium shifts in the phosphorolysis reaction 
indicated an approach to an energetic balance between 1a 
and Rib1P at higher temperatures (Fig. S5).


---

Description:
The dominant species in the reaction system, responsible for depleting the pool of free nucleoside in dilute aqueous solution at room temperature.

Text:
Collectively, 
these results describe 1a as the dominant borate ester in this 
reaction system, responsible for depleting the pool of free 
nucleoside in dilute aqueous solution at room temperature. Consistent with this conclusion, the 2deoxy nucleoside 
deoxy1a, incapable of forming 1a or 1a, did not show an 
equilibrium shift during its phosphorolysis in the presence of 
borate or any reaction with borate discernible by NMR (Fig. S15). Next, we sought to identify the cause of the apparently 
reduced reaction rates in the presence of borate by enlisting 
kinetic studies and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. This 
effect was especially prominent with borate concentrations 
greater than 20 mM and led to decreases in the reaction rate 
of GtPyNP by more than a factor of four, as illustrated in Figure 
2D.
