Description:
An atom that can bind to metal surfaces in heterogeneous catalysis.

Text:
These
scaling relations result in the volcano relationships be
tween ratesselectivities and descriptors that are used ex
tensively in heterogeneous catalysis. It provides a theo
retical basis for the heuristic Sabatier principle,11 which
suggests that the optimal catalyst is one with an optimal
bond energies for relevant intermediate(s). The scaling
relations show which intermediate(s) are relevant and the
optimal value(s) for the binding energy of these interme
diate(s). Linear or piecewise linear scaling relationships are ob
served when two adsorbates bind to the metal through
the same atom such as C, CH, CH
2 and CH
3,12,13
where denotes the surface.


---

Description:
Has chemisorption energies that do not scale with oxygen.

Text:
The model demonstrates that the root
cause of lack of scaling between two adsorbed species lies
in differences of their renormalised adsorbate valence en
ergies. For instance, Op states are considerably lower
in energy than Cp states. Through this analysis, we
identify the conditions under which carbon and oxygen
do scale with each other. II. CHEMISORPTION ENERGIES OF CARBON AND
OXYGEN DO NOT SCALE
In this section, we discuss the lack of linear scaling re
lations between the chemisorption energies of C and O. We use DFT calculations to obtain these chemisorption
energies (see Section VI for computational details).


---

Description:
An adsorbate whose chemisorption energy is plotted against that of O.

Text:
In
general, for any adsorbate A, the chemisorption energy
EA is defined as,
EA  EAEEA
where Arepresents A adsorbed on the surface, is the
free surface and A is the adsorbate in vacuum. Figure 1a
shows the chemisorption energies of O plotted against
that of C. It is evident that there is a significant amount
of scatter and no linear scaling relations are observed. Despite the lack of linear scaling, there is, broadly, an
increasing trend for both C and O energies in Figure
1a. Metals that bind C strongly (for example, Fe) also
bind O strongly and those that bind C weakly (Au,
Ag) also bind O weakly. However, due to the noticeable
amount of scatter, this general rule does not always
hold.
