Description:
A derivative that forms H and J aggregates in water.

Text:
In addition, Jaggregates were also 
observed in the selfassembly of synthetic bacteriochlorins attached 
to peptides as a type of biohybrid lightharvesting systems.2, 3, 7, 10, 13, 
1624 
We have previously reported the aggregation behavior in a coil
platecoil molecule of pyrrolopyrrole cyanine (PPcy) derivative in the 
coprecipitation with a polymeric surfactant in a mixture of 
tetrahydrofuran and water. The flash precipitation of PPcy in water 
resulted in the formation of both H and Jaggregates together with 
some monomers.25 Nevertheless, the effects of chemical structures 
and molecular weights of synthetic polymers as scaffolds on J
aggregation coupling of molecular chromophores remain poorly 
understood.26 Studies to address these issues are important to 
realize 
a 
rational 
molecular 
design 
of 
synthetic 
chromophorepolymer complexes for applications such as artificial 
photosynthesis and biomedical applications.


---

Description:
A chromophore used as an initiator in polymerization for excitonic coupling.

Text:
Herein, we report a series of polyestertethered molecular 
chromophores by controllable polymerization from the two ends of 
a pyrrolopyrrole cyanine (PPcy) derivative as the initiator (Scheme 1, 
S1a). The chemical structures and chain lengths of the polyesters 
play a critical role in finetuning the excitonic coupling among PPcy 
chromophores within colloidal nanoparticles in water. Moreover, we 
present a new type of thermoswitchable nearinfrared (NIR) 
emission caused by the reversible transformation between 
monomeric (M) and Jaggregate states of the fluorophores. We 
further demonstrate the potential of these thermosensitive 
materials for applications such as tumor imaging and the high 
efficiency of phototherapy.


---

Description:
A compound used as an initiator for grafting biodegradable polycaprolactone via ring-opening polymerization.

Text:
Results and discussion 
Synthesis and Characterization of Pyrrolopyrrole Cyanine (PPcy) 
Derivatives and Polymers 
We first synthesized a series of polymers (denoted as PPCx, where x 
represents the numberaverage degree of polymerization of PCL on 
each side) by grafting biodegradable polycaprolactone (PCL) from a 
hydroxylbearing PPcy initiator (P0) via ringopening polymerization 
a. School of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, Nanyang Technological 
University, 62 Nanyang Drive, Singapore, 637459. 
b. School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shenzhen, 518172, China. Email wangmingfengcuhk.edu.cn. c. State Key Laboratory of Molecular Vaccinology and Molecular Diagnostics  
Center for Molecular Imaging and Translational Medicine, School of Public Health, 
Xiamen University, Xiamen, 361102, China. d. School of Materials Science and Engineering, South University of Science and 
Technology, Shenzhen, 518172, China.
