Description:
Mentioned as both bioactive compounds and starting materials in synthesis.

Text:
. More than a decade ago, oxetanes received a 
second breath, when they were shown to mimic a carbonyl 
group in bioactive compounds (Scheme 1). Moreover, the 
oxetane fragment was demonstrated to increase water 
solubility, improve metabolic stability, and lower the 
lipophilicity of organic molecules.1 Since that time oxetanes 
have been gaining popularity in different areas of chemistry 
including organic synthesis, chemical biology, and medicinal 
chemistry.24 In particular, oxetanecarboxylic acids have been 
mentioned in 200 peerreviewed manuscripts and patents as 
both bioactive compounds5 and starting materials in synthesis 
(Scheme 1).6 Not surprising that during the past years, we 
received many requests for their preparation. Some oxetane
carboxylic acids were known in the literature, some of them we 
needed to synthesize for the first time.


---

Description:
Compounds that easily isomerize into lactones under storage at room temperature or slight heating.

Text:
Over time, however, we 
realized that many oxetanecarboxylic acids were intrinsically 
unstable  they easily isomerized into lactones under storage at 
room temperature or under slight heating. Here, we want to 
disclose this unknown in the literature phenomenon, as 
chemists keep on using these molecules (Scheme 1), without 
realizing that many of them are unstable, as that could 
dramatically affect reaction yields and lead to negative results 
(especially in those reactions that require heating). Intended intramolecular isomerizations of oxetanes by 
nucleophiles were reported in the literature (Scheme 1).7,8 In 
most cases these reactions required additional activation of the 
oxetane ring by Lewisacid catalysts (In, Sc, Fe, BF3, Co, Pd, 
phosphoric acids, etc).


---

Description:
Compounds that easily isomerize under simple storage or slight heating without external catalysis.

Text:
In our case, many oxetanecarboxylic 
acids easily isomerized under simple storage or slight heating 
and required no external catalysis. Results and Discussion. Unexpected discovery. Previously, 
we developed an approach to spirocyclic pyrrolidines via 
32cycloaddition.9 As a part of this project, we synthesized 
several 
oxetanecarboxylic 
acids. In 
particular, 
alkali 
saponification of ester 1 followed by acidification with 
NaHSO4 gave crude acid 1a. At that time, we obtained pure 
product 1a by simple washing the crude product with MeOtBu 
to remove soluble impurities. Inspection of this product three 
months later revealed the presence of ca. 25 of the individual 
impurity according to 1H NMR. After one year of storage at 
room temperature, ca. 50 of this impurity was present.
