Description:
Has a tetrahedral structure with CCC angles of 109.47 degrees.

Text:
It is relevant to observe interconnectedness between solid state and organic domains regarding the 
chemistry of carbon. Inspired from 2D 1,4cyclohexadiene planar molecule (Fig. 1a) was enclosed 
in the so called glitter structure with tetragonal hexacarbon C6, thus mirroring the molecule in a 
crystal 1. The structure shown in Fig. 1b consists of cornersharing tetrahedra of C(sp3) white 
spheres in the a,b plane, connected by CC double bonds along cdirection. The crystal data 
detailed in Table 1 point to a distorted tetrahedron with angles departing from the perfect 
tetrahedron angle CCC  109.47 found, for instance, in methane CH4 or diamond. Due to the 
two kinds of connectivity (Fig.


---

Description:
Characterized by high hardness due to corner sharing C4 tetrahedra and C(sp3) hybridization.

Text:
1b polyhedral view), the calculated mechanical properties identified 
tetC6 as ultrahard with the particularity of being metallic whence the glitter designation while 
being characterized with less cohesive energy and hardness than diamond 2. A major role in the 
high hardness of diamond is played by the corner sharing C4 tetrahedra and the C(sp3) hybridization 
characterizing the structure (Fig. 1c). Considering the tetrahedron as elementary building unit, and 
using above tetragonal C6, an isolated tetrahedron in a box can be identified from halving the 
structure (see red line crossing in Fig. 1b), letting obtain a tetrahedron within C3 stoichiometry. The 
structure shown in Fig.


---

Description:
Characterized by unique interatomic distance and angle.

Text:
1c obtained after geometry optimization onto the ground state with quantum 
mechanical calculations based on the density functional theory DFT 3 is described in the 
tetragonal system (cf. Table 1). However, such tetrahedron was found less cohesive, explained by 
the lack of 3D periodicity. Additional carbon at 0,0,0 (corner positions, Fig. 1d) let gain 3D 
periodicity with cornersharing tetrahedra in all directions. The resulting tetC4 was found as 
cohesive as diamond 4 and equally characterized with unique interatomic distance and angle as 
shown in Table 1. Our proposition of a very simple dense carbon allotrope, i.e.
