Description:
Reveals a wealth of vibronic structure throughout the three lowest-lying electronic states through high-resolution anion photoelectron spectra of cryogenically cooled samples.

Text:
Nickel oxides are an important class of catalytic materials with a wide range of industrial 
applications including the formation of syngas,1, 2 oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes,3, 4 and 
carbon monoxide oxidation.5 Therefore, understanding their properties is of both technological 
and fundamental importance. While much of the emphasis of nickel oxide catalysis involves 
condensed phase experiments, the gas phase study of isolated massselected metal oxide clusters 
provides a complementary molecularlevel understanding of the structure and reactivity of these 
species.6, 7 Here, we report highresolution anion photoelectron spectra of cryogenically cooled 
NiO2, revealing a wealth of vibronic structure throughout the three lowestlying electronic 
states of NiO2.


---

Description:
Neutral NiO2 was first studied in ideal gas matrices.

Text:
There are relatively few experimental studies concerning the structure812 and reactivity of 
NiO20.1316 Neutral NiO2 was first studied in ideal gas matrices, where three isomers were 
identified in an Ar matrix9 cyclic Ni(O2), bent NiOO, and linear ONiO (referred to as NiO2 
hereafter). Subsequent work in Ne matrices found preferential formation of NiO2 with trace 
Ni(O2), allowing for the extraction of two and three vibrational frequencies for these species, 
respectively.12 In the gas phase, anion photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) has been used to probe 
the geometric and electronic structure of these species.


---

Description:
Has an electron affinity of 3.05(1) eV and shows partially resolved vibrational structure with a frequency of 750 cm-1.

Text:
The first PES study of NiO2 was 
performed by Wu and coworkers,10 who observed photodetachment from both the bent Ni(O2) 
and linear NiO2 anions, finding the electron affinity (EA) of Ni(O2) to be 0.82(3) eV, 
considerably lower than that of NiO2 at 3.05(1) eV. The NiO2 band showed partially resolved 
vibrational structure with a frequency of 750 cm1. This work also found transitions to two low
lying electronic states of NiO2 with term energies of 0.40(2) and 0.77(3) eV. Subsequent anion 
PES work performed by Ramond et al.11 reexamined the ground state spectrum of NiO2 with 
improved resolution, yielding a refined EA of 3.043(5) eV as well as the v1 symmetric stretch 
frequency of 745(30) cm1 from a progression in this mode.


---

Description:
A compound with a challenging electronic and vibrational structure due to its multireference nature.

Text:
The electronic and vibrational structure of NiO2 pose a considerable challenge to theory owing to 
its multireference nature.17, 18 Treatments using density functional theory,9, 12, 1921 coupled cluster 
methods,21 and multireference methods22 have found a 
1
g
