Description:
Used in optical sensors due to its efficient luminescence quenching properties.

Text:
Luminescence quenching in some metalorganic frameworks (MOFs) is known to be very efficient, 
making these materials interesting candidates for application in optical oxygen sensors.1 Particularly 
intriguing is the porphyrinic MOF class PCN224, which is characterized by high porosity, and good 
stability in presence of acids, bases, organic solvents or at high temperature.2 The PCN224 MOFs are 
characterized by efficient absorption of visible light and variable luminescence decay times 
(nanoseconds to hundreds of microseconds) depending on the use of the free or differently metalated 
porphyrin linkers.3 Accordingly, PCN224based materials show tunable dynamic ranges making them 
suitable for e.g.


---

Description:
A gas that can be sensed in ultratrace amounts in the gas phase or in ambient concentrations in water.

Text:
ultratrace sensing of oxygen in the gas phase3 or sensing of ambient oxygen 
concentrations in water.4 Although such MOFbased oxygen sensor materials evolved as an 
interesting alternative to conventional polymer based sensors,5 insights in their working principle are 
hardly available. We herein wish to contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of MOFbased 
optical sensors by tackling the question whether chromophores from the inner core of the crystal 
participate in the sensing event.


---

Description:
A molecule that can quench luminescence by interacting with chromophores.

Text:
The luminescence from the chromophores located in the core of the 
MOF might be limited or even completely undetectable due to possible absorption of the entire 
excitation light in the outer layer of the framework by primary inner filter effect andor by 
reabsorption of the light emitted from the core by the outer layer (secondary inner filter effect).6 
Moreover, luminescence quenching may be significantly less efficient due to lower accessibility of the 
inner parts of the crystal to oxygen.


---

Description:
Involved in quenching behavior in MOFs.

Text:
This information however is not only crucial for understanding of 
MOFs function as optical sensor materials, but also as photocatalytic materials,7 photosensitizers for 
photodynamic therapy8 and in bioremediation applications.9 We prepared coreshell MOFs (often 
referred to as MOFonMOF materials) with isostructural elements that utilize organic linkers with 
significantly different photophysical properties10 and studied their different emission spectra and 
oxygen quenching behavior. PCN224 type materials are supposedly well suited for this endeavor since 
differently metalated and free porphyrin ligands crystallize in the same space group with the same 
lattice constants.1,2 
Results and Discussion 
The coreshell MOFs were prepared by a twostep procedure using 5,10,15,20tetrakis(4
carboxyphenyl)21,23Hporphyrin (H2TCPP) and its Pt(II) complex (Pt(II)TCPP) as the ligands. First, the 
core was synthesized by the conventional solvothermal reaction.
