Description:
An alternative fuel considered for energy storage applications.

Text:
Porous carbons have been extensively investigated for their po
tential use in gas storage andor capture applications, in partic
ular related to energy storage applications including for alterna
tive fuels such as H2 and CH4 or for CO2 capture.19 A materials
capacity for a particular sorptive is known to be related to the
porosity of the material, and in particular the pore width plays an
important role.5,1021 Pore entrances for sorption of some gas at
a given pressure and temperature must be large enough for the
molecule in question can diffuse into it.


---

Description:
Has an ideal pore size of 6 Å with slight variations depending on temperature and pressure, and ultramicropores of width 7 Å are considered ideal.

Text:
There have been several attempts to determine the optimum
pore size for given sorptives under some conditions. In general,
the approach to this has been to either identify the ideal pore
size, i.e. a single width such as 6  for H2 with slight varia
tions depending on temperature and pressure.12,28 An alternative
method is to propose larger regions, i.e. an optimum pore size
range (herein referred to as );15,35,36 for H2 it has been reported
that ultramicropores, i.e. pores of width 7  are ideal.20,31
These regions or single widths are determined via purely com
putational methods or from experimentally determined uptakes
and pore size distributions (PSDs).


---

Description:
Uptake density reduces drastically as average pore width increases from 10 to 20 Å at 1 bar and 196°C.

Text:
Pores larger than
10  , as well as the oftused parameter of average pore size were
shown to be poor predictors of uptake at these low pressures.13
Average pore size can however be useful when compared against
socalled uptake density (uptake per unit surface area). For ex
ample, Masika et al found that uptake density of H2 (1 bar, 196
C) reduced drastically as average pore width increased from 10
to 20  .16
Journal Name, year, vol.,112  1
