Description:
A commercial material used in lithium-ion batteries with a theoretical capacity of 372 mAh/g.

Text:
Lithiumion batteries (LiBs) have increased over the last three decades, being 
today the best choice for energy storage due to their cyclability, larger capacity, 
and high power. Numerous challenges need to be tackled given the increasing 
use of electric vehicle applications, such as achieving higher energy density and 
power densities.13 Active materials that accommodate further Liions could 
improve the LiB energy density. Silicon is a promising active material due to its 
almost ten times higher theoretical capacity (3576 mAhg) than commercial 
graphite (372 mAhg). Nevertheless, silicon undergoes a significant volume 
change upon cycling that provokes electric connectivity loss from the current 
collector and increased strain, reducing cycle life.


---

Description:
Mixed with silicon to develop composites that enhance aging behavior and capacity retention in LiBs.

Text:
Improving silicon cycling 
issues has become crucial for advanced electric vehicles LiBs.4,5 Several 
strategies can improve silicon cycling problematics, such as carboncoated 
nanostructured electrodes, which have demonstrated a bettercycled life and 
improved pulverization by avoiding direct contact with the electrolyte and 
forming a wellbehaved solid electrolyte interphase (SEI).69 Furthermore, mixing 
silicon with graphite to develop composites has improved aging behavior and 
capacity retention by creating a conductive matrix that sustains silicon volume 
expansion.1012 
A growing interest in improving LiBs cycle life is also linked to optimizing the 
battery manufacturing process. This process includes multiple steps, such as 
the slurry preparation and the coating, solvent drying, electrode calendering, and 
cell assembly. Optimizing the fabrication steps aims to improve the energy 
density, cycling rate, and stability.


---

Description:
Combined with silicon in advanced batteries to buffer silicon volume expansion.

Text:
Since silicon has recently been added to 
advanced batteries, few studies have addressed the optimization of the 
manufacturing steps. Today, much of the silicon added in advanced batteries for 
electric vehicles is combined with graphite. In particular, Si is added in low 
contents ( 10 wt) to boost the electrode capacity while buffering silicon volume 
expansion and benefiting from the wellbehaved graphite cycling.
