Description:
A lipid-soluble organometallic reagent known for its high toxicity.

Text:
Twentyfive years ago this June, the inorganic chemistry community suffered the loss of an 
extraordinary scholar, teacher, and mentor, Dr. Karen Wetterhahn, who died many months after 
an accidental exposure to dimethylmercury. A few drops of this lipidsoluble organometallic 
reagent fell upon, and passed through, the latex glove she wore while preparing it for use as a 
standard for a series of 199Hg NMR experiments. The courage Dr. Wetterhahn showed in insisting 
that details of her accident be shared after her death, as well as the science underpinning the slow 
manifestation of dimethylmercury toxicity, has been described in a number of firsthand accounts 
from colleagues and health safety professionals (15).


---

Description:
Permeable to almost all types of laboratory gloves.

Text:
While the materials safety data sheets at that 
time did not specify types of gloves that afford appropriate protection, Blayney has since shown 
that almost all types of laboratory gloves are permeable to dimethylmercury and that a combination 
of Silver Shield and neoprene gloves is now specified for optimal protection (6). In this Viewpoint 
we update and expand upon a discussion of alternative chemical shift standards that was first 
posted as a website at the time of Dr. Wetterhahns death (7). After addressing why 
dimethylmercury was employed in the initial set up of 199Hg NMR experiments and as a chemical 
shift standard, we outline the utility of alternative reference compounds and provide recent 
examples from the literature.


---

Description:
A highly toxic compound used as a chemical shift reference in 199Hg NMR experiments.

Text:
Given what the toxicology and chemical health and safety 
communities have learned from Dr. Wetterhahns case about the extraordinary risks of handling 
dimethylmercury, and given the clear utility of alternative mercurycontaining compounds as 
standards, we underscore and amplify a simple message dimethylmercury need not be used in 
most 199Hg NMR experiments. DIMETHYLMERCURY AS A CHEMICAL SHIFT REFERENCE
