Description:
A wide band gap semiconductor material with long-term stability and low toxicity.

Text:
Colloidal nanoplatelets are ultrathin 2D nanomaterials
whose outstanding optical properties triggered a wide
research effort. (1) However they usually contain heavy
metals such as cadmium, (2, 3) lead (4) or mercury whose
toxicity is a drawback to their use wide acceptance. In the
quest for more environment and health benign materials,
indium based nanoparticles are often thought of as possible
alternatives. Among them, indium sulde is a wide band gap
semiconductor material which has useful properties such
as longterm stability and low toxicity when compared to
its toxic counterparts.


---

Description:
Colloidal nanoparticles explored for synthetic pathways with partial shape control.

Text:
With band gaps ranging from 1.65
eV to 3.7 eV depending on the crystal phase reported in
the literature (5, 6), In2S3 could be used in a variety of
optoelectronic applications such as buffer layers in photo
voltaics (7), in display devices and photodetectors (812),
or for water splitting (13). Although research on indium
sulde colloidal nanoparticles has been quite active in the
past years, notably in the exploration of different synthetic
pathways, only partial shape control has been achieved to
date. For example, several reports describe the synthesis
of 1D nanomaterials such as long nanotubes (14) using
InCl3 and sulfur in oleylamine, while ditertbutyl disulde
and indium acetylacetonate in oleylamine yield In2S3
nanorods with a mean length of 170 nm (15).


---

Description:
Forms large nanosheets through the thermal decomposition of indium trisdiethyldithiocarbamate in hexadecylamine.

Text:
As far as 2D
nanomaterials are concerned, Park et al. have rst reported
the colloidal synthesis of In2S3 hexagonal nanoplates (8)
while the Pradhan group obtained large (1 m) indium
sulde nanosheets through the thermal decomposition of
indium trisdiethyldithiocarbamate in hexadecylamine (16). Similar wrinkled nanosheets have been observed as transient
intermediates towards smaller (60 nm) hexagonal In2S3
nanoplates when InCl3 and thiourea are used as precursors
in oleylamine (17). Shape control can also be achieved
using other strategies without varying the precursor sources
Ni et al. obtained nanotubes from the selfassembly of
ultrathin nanocoils synthesized from indium acetate and
sulfur in octylamine (18, 19), whereas Tian et al.


---

Description:
Nanoparticles whose shape and atomic composition depend on synthesis parameters.

Text:
showed
that nanoakes, spherical nanoparticles or nanobelts could
be obtained with the introduction of an appropriate metallic
ion in the initial mixture (20). Finally, starting from the same
type of precursors, other materials with different indium
oxidation states can be obtained. For instance, InS materials
may appear in four different allotropic varieties (orthorhom
bic, monoclinic, cubic and tetragonal) with the orthorhombic
Pnnm structure predicted to be the most stable (21). 1DInS
nanomaterials have already been reported in the form of
wires or rods (22), whereas 2DInS nanomaterials were ob
tained from a solvothermal synthesis between thioacetamide
and indium metal resulting in the formation of thin NR (23). Overall, the control of particle shape and atomic composition
in indium sulde nanoparticles is strongly dependent on the
synthesis parameters.
