Description:
Inorganic materials requiring additional surface chemistry for colloidal stability.

Text:
After the discovery of graphene, twodimensional (2D) 
nanomaterials have become an emerging class in science13. They provide numerous opportunities for electronics, catalysis, 
optics and (gas) storage on the nanoscale and beyond19. Furthermore, their use in biomedical applications is a main 
focus for researchers1015. Classes of 2D nanomaterials which 
have proven successful in biomedicine include graphene, 
transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), layered double 
hydroxides (LDHs), silicate clays, transition metal oxides 
(TMOs), hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) and many more1618. Hydrophobicity and the chemical inertness of most 2D 
nanomaterials are challenges especially for biological 
applications, in aqueous environments. Especially inorganic 
materials e.g. metal sulfides, chalcogenides and silicates require 
additional surface chemistry for example to guarantee colloidal 
stability.


---

Description:
Layered silicates that are biocompatible and have potential in bioimaging, sensing, photothermal therapy, and tissue engineering.

Text:
The biocompatible nature of this class 
of layered silicates has been demonstrated by cell viability 
assays and in vivo studies31. Among them, an increasing number 
of publications has proven the high potential of EBNS in the 
biomedical field as multifunctional platform for bioimaging31,32, 
sensing33, 
photothermal 
therapy 
(PTT)34,35, 
tissue 
engineering36,37 and more. Especially as novel NIR fluorophore, 
EBNS appears of extreme interest. Fluorophores that emit in 
the NIR window (NIRI   7501000 nm; NIRII   1000
1700 nm) present optimal characteristics for bioimaging due to 
reduced 
phototoxicity, 
scattering, 
absorption 
and 
autofluorescence of biological samples at these wavelengths38
41. Although organic dyes (e.g. indocyanine green42, modified 
boron dipyrromethenes4346, etc.) and nanomaterials (e.g. quantum dots47, silicon nanocrystals48, singlewalled carbon 
nanotubes4955, etc.)
