Description:
A storable energy carrier used in water electrolysis.

Text:
To halt the global temperature increase, drastic transitions in 
energy production and storage are required. During the last 
decade, the global electricity production by renewable energy 
duplicated and is predicted to keep growing rapidly.1 However, a 
major problem for the large scale implementation of renewable 
energies is the mismatch between production and demand. Compensating this discrepancy requires matching buffer 
capacities. The key principle for a hydrogen fueled society is to 
facilitate hydrogen (H2) as a storable energy carrier. In this 
scenario, excess energy is used in water electrolysis to produce 
hydrogen.


---

Description:
Produced through water splitting in a photoelectrochemical cell (PEC) using solar energy.

Text:
Alternatively, a direct conversion of solar energy to 
hydrogen in a photoelectrochemical cell (PEC) promises higher 
overall efficiency by utilizing synergetic effects of photoabsorption 
and water splitting,2 so that the system can be operated in a 
decentralized way.


---

Description:
Involved in the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) for water splitting.

Text:
In such systems, photoabsorbers can 
generate the required photovoltage, while catalysts decrease the 
overpotential of the oxygen and hydrogen evolution reaction 
(OER, HER) for overall water splitting.3 
The maximum photon flux from solar irradiation limits the current 
density to 10 mA cm2 on a flat substrate with an electrode area 
equal to its photoabsorber size.2,4 For low current densities, 
cheap and earth abundant metalnitrogencarbon (MNC; M  Mn, 
Fe, Co, Ni, Mo) catalysts hold promise to replace platinumtype 
catalysts for the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER).5 MNC 
catalysts are better known for their excellent activity in the oxygen 
reduction reaction (ORR).6 They are also attractive for the CO2 
reduction reaction (CO2RR) yielding valuable green fuels or base 
chemicals.5c,7 One notable property of these materials is that the 
selectivity of the reduction process can be manipulated by varying 
the nature of the metal center or its chemical environment.5b,7c,8 
Almost all MNC catalysts are prepared via a high temperature 
pyrolysis which results in a material with varying degrees of 
structural disorder.
