Description:
Crystalline, microporous materials renowned for their molecular sieving and catalytic applications.

Text:
Zeolites are crystalline, microporous materials renowned for their molecular sieving and catalytic 
applications. 1,2 The aluminosilicate framework is assembled from silica and alumina tetrahedra 
linked through apical oxygen atoms. Chargecompensating cations reside in the zeolite pores to 
render an overall neutral framework. Existing zeolite materials are often modified to optimise their 
performance in many applications. For example, cation exchange can be used to tailor the pore 
architecture of a zeolite to significantly improve its selectivity, adsorption and diffusion properties. We have previously shown that changing the nature of the extraframework cations in zeolites A 
(LTA) and Y (FAU) can cause structural modifications, such as altering the size of the unitcell and 
pore windows and changing the local environment of aluminium atoms in the framework.


---

Description:
Materials with unique, quasi-1D, 12R channel systems used for hosting polar guest materials and facilitating resonance energy transfer.

Text:
3,4 In 
this work, we explore the effect of cation exchange on the pore dimensions, cation locations and 
water distribution within the 12ring (12R) channel systems of LTLtype zeolites. Zeolites with the 
LTL topology have attracted particular attention because of their unique, quasi1D, 12R channel 
systems, with free access diameters of 7 . 57 The geometric constraints imparted by the LTL 
framework, and the electrostatic fields generated by nonframework cations, create an ideal host 
environment for a variety of polar guest materials. For example, donor and acceptor chromophores 
are readily ordered into supramolecular arrays within the 12R channels, allowing efficient resonance 
energy transfer to occur. These hostguest materials are of particular interest as artificial antenna 
systems for light harvesting, with applications in photochemical and optoelectronic devices.
