Description:
Produced via the photooxidation of benzyl alcohol in the photocatalytic production of hydrogen peroxide.

Text:
Heterogeneous photocatalysis represents a vibrant research field13 with possible applications 
ranging from water detoxification4 to solar fuel generation5 and chemical synthesis.68 Due to 
its simplicity, selective photooxidation of benzyl alcohols is often employed in photocatalysis 
as a model reaction for evaluation of the performance of various photocatalysts.915 A 
prominent example is the photocatalytic production of hydrogen peroxide, an attractive high
value compound that can be employed as a fuel or a versatile and nontoxic oxidizing agent 
in various industrial processes, via reduction of dioxygen with concomitant photooxidation of 
benzyl alcohol to benzaldehyde.1618 As a rule, a blank test intended to confirm the 
photocatalytic nature of the reaction is performed by irradiating the solution of benzyl alcohol 
or other electron donor in the absence of photocatalyst, thus ruling out possible photochemical 
reactions which the substrate might undergo.


---

Description:
Formed by the self-oxidation of benzyl alcohol under UV light.

Text:
This approach, however, does not take into 
account the photochemical behaviour of products of partial oxidation of aromatic alcohols that 
are produced during irradiation of the suspension of photocatalysts in the substrate solution. In 
2016, 
the 
Augugliaro 
group 
reported 
the 
photocatalytic 
effect 
of 
ortho
methoxybenzaldehyde, produced by oxidation of orthomethoxybenzyl alcohol over TiO2 
photocatalysts, on homogeneous photooxidation of other alcohols under UV light.19 
Surprisingly, this important finding that should have alarmed many researchers has been sadly 
neglected by the community, as this paper has received only few citations so far. Two years 
later, Pavan et al. addressed the question of benzyl alcohol selfoxidation under UVlight.20 
When irradiating benzyl alcohol solution in acetonitrile with UVA light, they observed that after 
a long induction time benzaldehyde was formed.


---

Description:
A product formed immediately upon irradiation in the presence of a TiO2 photocatalyst.

Text:
The same experiments performed in the 
presence of a TiO2 photocatalyst showed that benzaldehyde was produced immediately upon 
starting irradiation; however, when the TiO2 photocatalysts was extracted after a certain time 
interval, the benzyl alcohol oxidation clearly proceeded further and the benzaldehyde 
concentration continued to grow. In other words, one can assume that the formed 
benzaldehyde initiated a photochemical reaction with benzyl alcohol leading to the oxidation 
of the latter according to the mechanism adapted from Bradshaw21, Heyes22 and Pavan20 and 
shown in Scheme 1.


---

Description:
Can perform hydrogen abstraction when dissolved in a good hydrogen donor.

Text:
The current knowledge on photogeneration of radical species in 
benzaldehyde solutions was recently summarized in a review by Kokotos et al.23 It was also 
observed that the UVexcited benzaldehyde triplet state can be effectively quenched by triplet
state energy acceptors,24 and when dissolved in a good hydrogen donor it can perform 
hydrogen abstraction leading to the formation hydroxybenzyl radical in general,25, 26 or of 
diols in the presence of alcohols.21 Arcas et al. provided further insight into the autooxidation 
processes in benzyl alcoholbenzaldehyde systems, claiming the formation of singlet oxygen 
being responsible for the oxidation of benzyl alcohol to benzaldehyde with concomitant
