Description:
Catalysts with high faradaic efficiency towards either CO or HCOO.

Text:
11, 15, 16Several recent studies 
revealed that modulating the Cu surface with another metal, such as In or Sn, is an effective strategy to tune 
selectivity towards either CO or HCOO at relatively low overpotentials. 17, 18 Luo et al. 19, Rasul et al. 20 and Zhu 
et al. 18 reported high CO faradaic efficiency (85 CO FE) at Cu surfaces modified with In nanoparticles. On 
the other hand, other researchers18, 21 developed CuIn bimetallic electrocatalysts with high FE for HCOO 
(85). Many other studies revealed a similar behavior for CuSn systems, where researchers reported Cu
Sn catalysts with high FE towards either CO or HCOO. 9, 17, 22 For instance, Li et al.


---

Description:
Catalyst with low Sn content showing CO selectivity in CO2 electroreduction.

Text:
23 investigated CO2ER on 
CuSnO2 coreshell nanoparticles with various Sn shell thickness, finding the selectivity to strongly depend on 
said thickness, with thicker Sn shells showing Snlike activity with high HCOO selectivity (FE 90), while 
thinner shell exhibited a high CO selectivity (FE 93). Moreover, our recently published work17 reported a 
similar behavior for Cu nanowires coated with ultrathin SnOx layers grown using atomic layer deposition, and 
detailed Xray spectroscopic investigation revealed differing Sn speciation (i.e. oxidation state) between the CO 
and HCOOselective catalysts. In those previous studies, the general trend is that CuIn and CuSn catalysts with low In and Sn contents (Cu
rich catalysts) are COselective, while those with high Sn and In contents (Cupoor catalysts) showed a higher 
tendency toward HCOO.


---

Description:
Interfaces play a crucial role in tuning the binding strength of key intermediates.

Text:
A variety of mechanistic hypotheses, such as alloying and electronic effects, have 
been proposed to explain these bimetallic synergetic effects, mostly centered around the crucial role of CuIn 
and CuSn interfaces in tuning the binding strength of the key intermediates (e.g., COOH, OCHO and H) and 
consequently, CO and HCOO selectivity. 17, 19, 2325For instance, DFT calculations attribute the selectivity shifts 
(from CO to formate) with increasing of In or Sn contents to the gradual weakening of the adsorbed COOH 
intermediate (which leads to CO), concurrently with enhancing the adsorption of OCHO intermediate (resulting 
in HCOO).


---

Description:
A Cubased bimetallic catalyst with effects on CO2ER performance.

Text:
The surface composition and speciation of Cubased bimetallic catalysts (CuSn and CuIn) have substantial 
effects on their performance (selectivity) for CO2ER, as discussed above. However, most of the previous studies 
build their mechanistic hypotheses based on structural information gathered from exsitu measurements 
conducted either before or after CO2ER testing. Since it is well known that catalyst materials can significantly 
transform under CO2ER measurement conditions, basing DFT calculations on such structural information as a 
main way to explain the observed selectivity trends of these bimetallic systems can be challenging and 
potentially misleading, as the models likely do not represent the precise activesurface species. Accordingly, in
depth exploration of the surface chemical environment, speciation (oxidation states), structure and composition
