Description:
An essential feedstock used in various industrial applications ranging from chemical synthesis to energy conversion.

Text:
The use of CO2 as a carbon feedstock will be an important component of a sustainable postfossilfuel future. CO2 can be electrochemically reduced into variety of products including hydrocarbons, alcohols, carbon 
monoxide (CO) and formate (HCOO). Recent technoeconomic analyses suggest that twoelectron reduction 
of CO2 into C1 products (i.e., HCOO and CO) presents the best route to economic feasibility in the near future.1
4 CO and HCOO are essential feedstock used in various industrial applications ranging from chemical synthesis 
(FisherTropsch) to energy conversion (e.g., fuel cells) through existing and emerging technologies.59 The 
realization of electrochemical synthesis of these important molecules at large scale will require catalysts with 
high activity and selectivity to the desired products, exceptional stability, sufficient Earthabundance, and broad 
availability.


---

Description:
A C1 compound produced during the electroreduction of CO2 by Cu.

Text:
New discoveries of improved catalysts, guided by a detailed understanding of structureactivity 
relationships, are needed in order to progress toward these targets. The selectivity of CO2 electroreduction (CO2ER) is strongly dependent on the nature of the catalyst. Among the 
single metals which show CO2ER activity10, In and Sn are mainly HCOO producers, while Cu shows a unique 
ability to reduce CO2 into a wide range of products including C1 compounds (CO, HCOO and CH4) and C2 
hydrocarbons (C2H4, C2H5OH, and others), typically as an undesirable mixture. 6, 11 A variety of approaches, 
including surface nanostructuring1214, and tuning the electronic structure by modifying with a second metal, 
have been introduced to direct the selectivity of Cu towards a specific product.


---

Description:
A product with high faradaic efficiency at Cu surfaces modified with In nanoparticles.

Text:
11, 15, 16Several recent studies 
revealed that modulating the Cu surface with another metal, such as In or Sn, is an effective strategy to tune 
selectivity towards either CO or HCOO at relatively low overpotentials. 17, 18 Luo et al. 19, Rasul et al. 20 and Zhu 
et al. 18 reported high CO faradaic efficiency (85 CO FE) at Cu surfaces modified with In nanoparticles. On 
the other hand, other researchers18, 21 developed CuIn bimetallic electrocatalysts with high FE for HCOO 
(85). Many other studies revealed a similar behavior for CuSn systems, where researchers reported Cu
Sn catalysts with high FE towards either CO or HCOO. 9, 17, 22 For instance, Li et al.


---

Description:
Selectivity product in CO2 electroreduction with high Faradaic efficiency when using Cu-rich catalysts.

Text:
23 investigated CO2ER on 
CuSnO2 coreshell nanoparticles with various Sn shell thickness, finding the selectivity to strongly depend on 
said thickness, with thicker Sn shells showing Snlike activity with high HCOO selectivity (FE 90), while 
thinner shell exhibited a high CO selectivity (FE 93). Moreover, our recently published work17 reported a 
similar behavior for Cu nanowires coated with ultrathin SnOx layers grown using atomic layer deposition, and 
detailed Xray spectroscopic investigation revealed differing Sn speciation (i.e. oxidation state) between the CO 
and HCOOselective catalysts. In those previous studies, the general trend is that CuIn and CuSn catalysts with low In and Sn contents (Cu
rich catalysts) are COselective, while those with high Sn and In contents (Cupoor catalysts) showed a higher 
tendency toward HCOO.
