Description:
A metal used in solid-state batteries to increase energy density and form anodes in situ.

Text:
Solidstate batteries (SSBs) could provide higher energy density than conventional lithium
ion batteries by enabling the use of the lithium metal anode15. Lithium metal SSBs with anode
free architectures have recently attracted attention due to the advantages of eliminating excess 
lithium metal (Fig. 1a)6,7. In an anodefree (or zerolithiumexcess) SSB, the cell is initially 
assembled without active material at the anode, and the anode is formed in situ by plating lithium 
prestored in the cathode611. Key advantages are the reduction in cell stack volume by 15, 
resulting in a large increase in energy density (Fig. 1a), as well as the removal of the need to 
handle airsensitive lithium metal in a manufacturing environment7,11.


---

Description:
A metal that can deform to contact the solid-state electrolyte, enabling initial plating at high current densities.

Text:
Anodefree SSB 
architectures could therefore increase energy density while also simplifying manufacturing and 
lowering cell costs. While there is great interest in anodefree SSBs6,7, achieving stable cycling in these cells 
is challenging12,13. One reason is that it is difficult to create uniform physical contact (i.e., without 
voids) between the solidstate electrolyte (SSE) and metal current collectors to enable initial 
lithium plating at high current densities, in contrast to soft lithium metal which can deform to 
contact the SSE. Poor interfacial contact will increase the local current density in some regions14
17, promoting the growth of lithium filaments that can short circuit the cell1822.


---

Description:
Used in metal anodes for SSBs and liquid electrolytes, exhibiting relatively low Coulombic efficiencies.

Text:
Additionally, the 
Coulombic efficiency (CE) of anodefree cells must be very high since there is no excess lithium 
to compensate for lithium loss due to side reactions. Lithium metal anodes in both SSBs and liquid 
electrolytes have been observed to exhibit relatively low CEs23,24, making this challenge difficult 
to solve. Designing viable anodefree SSBs therefore requires a detailed understanding of contact 
evolution, lithium filament growth, and capacity retention during plating and stripping at current 
collectorSSE interfaces. Despite growing interest, there has been relatively little work studying the mechanisms of 
plating and stripping in anodefree SSBs. Some studies have plated and stripped lithium on 
current collectors to measure Coulombic efficiency2527, but they did not investigate the underlying 
mechanisms at these interfaces.


---

Description:
Used in electrodeposition in anodefree cells.

Text:
Anodefree cells have also been used to observe lithium 
electrodeposition2832, but these configurations were generally chosen to avoid the challenges of 
probing buried interfaces. Recently, Wang et. al demonstrated that  3 mAh cm2 of Li could be 
cycled at interfaces between current collectors and the garnet Li7La3Zr2O12 (LLZO) SSE12. However, these cells operated at relatively low current densities ( 0.3 mA cm2) and required hot 
pressing current collectors onto LLZO at temperatures  900 C for fabrication. Other work has 
investigated anodefree SSBs using the softer Li6PS5Cl (LPSC) SSE13, finding that performance
