Description:
A two-dimensional material whose lattice defects significantly influence its electronic, optoelectronic, thermal, surface, and structural properties.

Text:
Lattice defects are ubiquitous in twodimensional materials (graphene and related two
dimensional materials) and play a significant role in their electronic, optoelectronic, thermal, 
surface, and structural properties of.16 These defects are present in many form such as 
vacancies, dislocations, grain boundaries, dopants, and adsorbates, and must be minimized for 
achieving the best electrical, thermal, and structural properties. Conversely, lattice defects can 
be beneficial for controlling holeelectron doping, optoelectronic and sensing properties, as 
well as surface reactions. Over the past decade, several methods have been demonstrated for 
the introduction of defects in twodimensional materials; however, these methods do not offer 
precision control and thus can readily cause adverse effects.


---

Description:
A material whose device performance can be reduced by polymer-based lithography.

Text:
For example, polymerbased 
lithography, which is traditionally used to pattern graphene has been found to significantly 
reduce its device performance.79 Solutions to mitigate this include grain boundary engineering 
to control fieldeffect mobility10 and van der Waals encapsulation by hexagonal boron nitride.9 
However, in all of these cases, lithographic techniques limit the feature sizes to 10 nm due to 
the use of photoresist and limits imposed by the energy of the electromagnetic radiation. Higher resolution can be achieved by using electron beams (ebeams), and previous 
uses of ebeam for defect engineering in graphene involved a high acceleration voltage (80
300 kV) inside a transmission electron microscope11 to control the elastic (e.g. atomic 
displacement, knockon damage) and inelastic (e.g. heating) mechanisms induced by the e
beam.


---

Description:
A material whose lattice can be manipulated by ebeam processes, affecting carrier density.

Text:
These high energy ebeam processes etched carbon atoms from the graphene lattice,11
17 rotated bonds in the lattice,12,18 and manipulated foreign atoms introduced during graphene 
processing.13,14,17 Other processes either used a lower acceleration voltage (520 kV) to remove 
preexisting defects (e.g. hydrogen19 and fluorine20) from graphene or defined nanostructures 
in graphene (or carbon nanotubes) through etching C atoms away.2125 Ebeam exposure 
experiments inside a scanning electron microscope (SEM) have revealed a dosedependent 
modulation of the carrier density in graphene, attributed to charges generated at the interface 
with the substrate (typically SiO2).2630 Importantly, all of these processes use the ebeam to 
manipulate atoms that are already present within the graphene lattice or on its surface without 
any controlled chemistry through substitution reactions.
