Description:
Sourced mainly from primary mining of ore deposits and secondary mining from sources like printed circuit boards.

Text:
Copper (Cu) is the first metal to be manipulated by man 1. In previous years, Cu has been 
used in domestic tools such as axes, military weaponry, and alloy of other metals such as brass, 
bronze, and others 2. In recent times and a more pronounced sense, Cu is used in building 
materials, jewelry, electrical contacts and conductors, industrial machinery, nutritional 
supplements, fungicides in agriculture, and making alloys 3. Although Cu is sourced mainly 
from primary mining of ore deposits, secondary mining from sources like printed circuit boards 
(PCBs) is gaining attention as it is a more environmentally friendly option than primary mining 
4. Popular methods employed for secondary Cu recovery include pyrometallurgy 5, 
hydrometallurgy 6, biohydrometallurgy 7, and electrochemical recovery 8.


---

Description:
Recovered from ores, concentrates, and scrap materials using aqueous solutions in hydrometallurgy.

Text:
Hydrometallurgy is most favoured because compared to other methods listed above, it is a 
relatively cheaper process, it is easier to set up, and it requires lower energy input. Hydrometallurgy is the recovery of Cu from ores, concentrates, and scrap materials using 
aqueous solutions (also known as leach solution). Hydrometallurgical processes fundamentally 
consist of three major stages. The first stage, known as leaching, is undertaken to transfer Cu 
from the PCB into the leach solution. The second stage, known as concentration, is aimed at 
the reduction of the amount of leach solution thereby increasing the concentration of Cu. The 
third stage, known as recovery is carried out to separate the Cu from the leach solution 9.


---

Description:
Recovered using sulfuric acid and basic leaching agents.

Text:
Of these leaching agents, sulfuric acid is the favoured solvent 
predominantly because its market price is lower than the other acids and it has been proven to 
be an efficient solvent, especially for the recovery of Cu 16. Ammoniacal mixtures and NaOH 
are examples of basic leaching agents for Cu recovery. The ammoniacal lixiviant is generally 
comprised of ammonia in combination with ammonium salts such as carbonates 17, chlorides 
18, or sulfates 19. The ammonia leaching process is more suitable for Cu extraction than 
acidic systems as these lixiviants show higher selectivity for Cu, leaving metals such as iron 
(Fe) and aluminium (Al) undissolved. However, it has been shown that nickel (Ni) and zinc 
(Zn) are also dissolved in the ammoniabased lixiviant. Most metals present in PCBs are
