Description:
Forms a passivating interface that is impermeable to Mg cations, leading to battery failure.

Text:
The search for new energy storage technologies to promote electromobility and reduce global
warming is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Magnesiumion batteries (MIB) are
attracting increasing attention as an alternative to conventional lithiumion batteries (LIB)
due to the unique properties of magnesium (Mg) metal anodes, such as high volumetric
capacity, low cost, and safe operation.15 However, mass market adoption of MIBs is cur
rently hindered by significant challenges. One of the biggest challenges is the formation of
a passivating interface on the Mg surface which is impermeable to Mg cations and leads to
battery failure.68 Sun et al.


---

Description:
Has a higher charge density due to its bivalency, leading to stronger coordination with solvent molecules and salt anions.

Text:
have identified three reasons for Mg degradation in a recent
review article.9
First, Mg has a higher charge density due to its bivalency which leads not only to stronger
coordination with solvent molecules and salt anions but also facilitates solvent decomposition
at the anode.10 For example, Lu et al.


---

Description:
Experiences nonuniform growth that can be hemispherical, porous, or dendritic.

Text:
have shown that the salt anion ClO4 is chemically
reduced at the Mg anode in carbonatecontaining solvents, forming a solidelectrolyte inter
face (SEI) consisting of Mghalides, MgO, Mg(OH)2, MgCO3, and Mg(ROCO2)2.11
Second, short circuits are induced by nonuniform Mg growth, which can be further sub
divided into hemispherical,12 porous13 or dendritic14 growth morphologies.9 Hemispherical
3D particles with different shapes have been detected in TFSIbased electrolytes as a function
of the applied current density.12 In an Mg(TFSI)2 salt electrolyte with MgCl2 as additive,
continuous stripping and plating leads to fracturing and reformation of the SEI layer, re
sulting in large effective current densities at the respective fracture sites and inhomogeneous
Mg deposition.13 Through this mechanism, hemispherical deposits are further degraded to
porous morphologies and trapped sediments that are irreversibly lost for cycling.


---

Description:
Forms dendrites much less frequently at the anode compared to Li.

Text:
The most
extreme form of nonuniform Mg growth is the formation of dendrites, which occurs much less
frequently at the Mg anode than in the Li equivalent. So far, dendrites have been detected
only for a 0.5 M solution of MeMgCl in THF at a current density of 0.921 mA cm2.14
Third, corrosion of the Mg surface upon contact with ambient air leads to the formation
3
