Description:
Components of proteins with XH bond dissociation energies important for predicting hydrogen atom abstractions.

Text:
The radical chemistry of proteins is of fundamental importance
in biochemistry. Radicals are involved in many enzymatic reac
tions. Also, oxidative damage to proteins is generally initiated
by radicals. For both, knowledge of reliable XH bond dissoci
ation energies (BDEs, X  C, N, O, S) for amino acids in pro
teins is important. XH BDEs allow to predict which hydrogen
atom abstractions will be thermodynamically possible, and which
lesion sites can be repaired by cellular antioxidants. Preferred
sites of radical attack and hydrogen atom abstraction are those
associated with the lowest energy barriers, and, according to the
BellEvansPolanyi principle,1,2 these reactions are typically the
most exothermic.


---

Description:
Previously computed XH bond dissociation energies (BDEs) in proteins using the isodesmic reaction method.

Text:
compound Y, and use it together with BDE(YH)exp to obtain
the BDE of the bond of interest, BDE(XH)
XHY X YH
(2)
HDFT  H(YH)H(X)H(XH)H(Y)
 BDE(XH)BDE(YH)
(3)
BDE(XH)isod  HDFT BDE(YH)exp
(4)
The isodesmic reaction method is expected to give more
accurate BDEs than if they were computed directly because
systematic errors of the chosen functional should compensate
to some extent if the reference compound is chosen to be
electronically similar. Previously, XH BDEs for amino acids in proteins have been
computed by Moore et al.5 using the isodesmic reaction method
at the B3LYP631G(d) level of theory. This study was an impor
tant step forward, as it was the first detailed catalogue of BDEs for
proteins.


---

Description:
XH BDEs in proteins computed using the isodesmic reaction method at the BMK631G(2df,p) level of theory.

Text:
However, while in the past often used, B3LYP is one of
the less well performing functionals for radical reactions.6 Also,
the set of references used previously5 lacks proper reference com
pounds for benzylic CH, carboxylic OH, and aromatic NH
bonds. Instead, tertbutyl amine was used as a reference com
pound for all side chain NH bonds. We report XH BDEs of amino acids in proteins computed us
ing the isodesmic reaction method at the BMK631G(2df,p)7
level of theory. We validate our BMK results by comparing the
BDEs of smaller amino acids to results obtained at the G4(MP2)
6X8 level of theory.
