Description:
Forms hydrogen bonds, which are significant in determining the structure of bound complexes and biomolecule folding.

Text:
through nOe), whilst titration or dilution 
experiments can provide thermodynamic parameters.29 However, whilst a change in resonant frequency 
may indicate hydrogenbonding, this represents a consequence, rather than direct observation of, the 
hydrogenbond. Methods for direct detection of hydrogen bonds in solution are advantageous, as they 
allow rapid assignment of structures (rather than proximity) in bound complexes, to complement solid 
state studies. For analyses of biomolecule folding and assembly by NMR, several techniques, (IMPACT
HMNBC, JNNHNNCOSY, SOFASTHMBC, SOFASTHMQC etc. )3037 have been employed, typically us
ing 15N isotope enriched samples and some 2D NMR methods have also been shown to be amenable to 
structural studies at 15N natural abundance.38 Although synthetic 15N isotope enriched supramolecular 
synthons have been studied using these techniques,39 such analyses are scarce.


---

Description:
Forms hydrogen bonds that can be observed through J coupling in Heteronuclear Multiple Quantum Coherence experiments.

Text:
In contrast to the ready 
access to 15N labelled proteins afforded through expression in 15N enriched media, it is more challenging 
and costly, to incorporate 15N through chemical synthesis. Despite clear advantages, the low abundance 
of 15N (isotopic abundance  (3.46  4.21)  103 molar fraction) renders development of spectroscopic 
methods that do not rely on enrichment, desirable for identification of hydrogenbonds. This need is fur
ther emphasized by the considerable effort currently devoted to the study of multicomponent selfsorting 
assemblies4045 and systems chemistry,4648 where characterization of speciation is challenging. In this 
work, we demonstrate that J coupling between hydrogenbonded nitrogen and hydrogen nuclei in Het
eronuclear Multiple Quantum Coherence (HMQC) experiments, allows observation of intra and intermo
lecular hydrogen bonds in diverse supramolecular architectures e.g.
