Description:
A two-dimensional material with fascinating properties and exceptional application potential.

Text:
The discovery of graphene has triggered an explosive development of twodimensional (2D) 
materials with fascinating properties and exceptional application potential,1 including transition 
metal dichalcogenides (TMDs),2 hexagonal boron nitride (hBN),3 black phosphorous (BP).4 
Recent years have witnessed the rise of their amorphous counterparts, namely amorphous 2D (a
2D) materials.5 The combination of atomic thinness and lack of longrange order has endowed a
2D materials with unique characteristics, such as ultrahigh uniformity, excellent mechanical and 
chemical stability, and abundance in catalyticactive sites, promoting their applications in 
flexible electronics, electrocatalysis, and energy storage.5 Consequently, substantial efforts have 
been devoted to the bottomup synthesis of a2D materials.


---

Description:
Graphene heterostructures can be characterized using Cc-Cs corrected microscopes for atomic resolution.

Text:
For example, monolayer amorphous 
carbon has been synthesized via laserassisted chemical vapor deposition (CVD).6 Owing to the 
atomic thinness of a2D materials, direct observation of atomic arrangements can be well 
achieved using aberrationcorrected highresolution transmission electron microscopy 
(HRTEM).7,8 Notably, the recent development in chromatic (Cc)  spherical (Cs) aberration 
correction greatly facilitated the characterization of 2D materials.9 The unique CcCscorrected 
microscope enables atomic resolution down to 20 kV,9,10 shedding light on defect structure and 
formation mechanisms in various 2D systems, such as graphene heterostructures 11 and 
TMDs.12,13 Cccorrection under low acceleration voltage substantially enhanced the atomic 
contrast,9 allowing for visualization of reaction dynamics at the singleatom level.


---

Description:
A 2D material where the structure requires interpreting every individual atom.

Text:
For instance, 
metal crystal nucleus formation has been observed in situ with atomic precision.14 
Despite rapid developments in TEM instrumentation, extracting structural information from 
HRTEM images of a2D materials is a nontrivial work. In contrast to the crystalline form, where 
the sample structure can be accurately depicted by merely a single unit cell and the atoms within, 
the shortrange order in a2D materials requires interpreting the structure as an entirety. Put 
differently, every individual atom in the HRTEM image (Fig. 1a and 1b) needs to be pinpointed. It is worth noting that a 10 nm  10 nm image of graphene already contains  4000 carbon 
atoms, rendering manual labelling extremely timeconsuming. This poses a substantial limitation
