Description:
Starting materials commonly used in methods that generate diaryliodonium salts.

Text:
Hypervalent iodine compounds (HVI) are wellestablished reagents for synthetic 
chemists. They are portrayed as an alternative to otherwise hazardous transition 
metals. This is due to their great reactivity in electrophilic group transfers 14, photo 
or organocatalysis 515, and their utility as building blocks for the synthesis of natural 
products 1621. One subclass of HVIs is diaryliodonium salts (DIS), which have been 
used as versatile electrophilic arylation reagents in metalcatalyzed and metalfree 
reactions 22, 23. The corresponding cyclic diaryliodonium salts (CDIS) have also 
been investigated as useful building blocks for the synthesis of larger diarylbased 
molecules, (hetero)aromatic tricyclic systems, or new arylmoieties 24, 25. Most 
methods that generate DIS utilize iodoarenes as starting materials 26, 27.


---

Description:
React with nucleophilic arenes under oxidative acidic conditions.

Text:
In these 
onepot procedures, iodoarenes react with nucleophilic arenes under oxidative acidic 
conditions.The synthesis of CDIS is more challenging since the arene moiety must be 
covalently connected to the iodoarene prior to cyclization. Recently, we published two 
new methods that describe the generation of carbon and heteroatombridged CDIS 
28, 29. Herein, we improved the formation of iodoarenes through a Brnsted acid
mediated FriedelCrafts reaction followed by an oxidative cyclization to form the 
desired CDIS 1 (Scheme 1, A). This onepot approach is based on orthoiodinated 
benzyl alcohols as starting materials. It allows access to a variety of otherwise tedious 
to synthesize CDIS robustly in short reaction times.


---

Description:
Compounds that can undergo anodic oxidation to synthesize hypervalent iodine reagents.

Text:
A significant drawback still is the 
use of stoichiometric amounts of chemical oxidants, which decreases the atom 
economy and necessitates additional workup procedures. A possible solution is the 
anodic oxidation of iodoarenes as electrochemistry is a highly economical tool that 
avoids chemical oxidants for synthesizing hypervalent iodine reagents 30. Iodoarenes
