Description:
A greenhouse gas whose emissions can be reduced by optimizing energy efficiency.

Text:
The concentration of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) in the 
Earths atmosphere are continuously increasing, being the main cause of global warming and 
climate change.1 In this sense, the use of renewable energies has become a recurring topic in order 
to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and, at the same time, to meet the increasing worldwide 
energy demands.2 However, such technologies are still far from coping with such needs, and other 
options need to be considered in the meantime. Within this context, one way of reducing the CO2 emissions is optimizing the energy efficiency 
of existing processes. For instance, removing CO2 from CH4 biogas fuel streams ensures an 
increase in the combustion power.


---

Description:
A chemically stable molecule present in biogas that needs to be separated from methane.

Text:
Here, the sought purity of CH4 required for its use as fuel has 
to be higher than 95 (vv).3 However, the extracted biogas streams feature 5075 (vv) of 
methane purity admixed with 2550 CO2,3 which makes necessary the biogas upgrading process 
separating CO2 form CH4 prior to its use as fuel. Actually, the chemical resolution i.e., chemical separation of CO2 from CH4 is quite an 
intricate problem, mostly due to the fact that both molecules are chemically stable, and, 
consequently, quite inactive, ultimately complicating their selective chemical resolution.


---

Description:
A molecule that can saturate materials like transition metal carbides and MXenes during adsorption processes.

Text:
Recently, 
transition metal carbides (TMCs) and their twodimensional (2D) versions, MXenes, have been 
proposed as suited materials capable of carrying out the separation of both molecules by selective 
adsorption of CO2.4,5 Their use implies having the material eventually saturated by CO2, though, 
so posterior regenerating processes are needed. Here, materials that allow for a continuous 
separation without regeneration interruption steps would be better adequate. Related to the previous, 2D porous membranes are gaining some popularity for selective 
diffusion processes. For instance, promising results have been achieved in studies on graphene
