Description:
An element whose K-edge in X-ray spectroscopy is sensitive to changes in molecular structure and orbital occupancy.

Text:
Xray spectroscopy at the carbon Kedge is highly sensitive to 
the changes in molecular structure and orbital occupancy, 
delivering accurate information about the energy of core and 
valence orbitals of molecules containing carbon atoms.


---

Description:
Involved in the K-edge region with tens of femtosecond time resolution.

Text:
The ability 
to laserproduce tabletop HHG sources reaching up to 300 eV 
opened opportunities to implement the laser pumpprobe technique 
with ultraviolet (UV) excitation probed by soft xray radiation in 
the carbon Kedge region with tens of femtosecond time 
resolution.1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 
Recently, we applied this technique to measure the xray 
spectrum of the benzene radical cation (Bz).9 Together with high
level calculations using equationofmotion coupledcluster singles 
and doubles theory (EOMCCSD), this study provided insight into 
the electronic structure of benzene (Bz) and its cation.10 
Comparison of the xray absorption spectra of neutral Bz and of 
Bz revealed a splitting of the two degenerate  orbitals as well as 
an appearance of a new peak due to a new transition to the partially 
occupied  orbital resulting from the ionization.


---

Description:
Involved in the excitation of one of the 1s electrons to vacant orbitals.

Text:
According to the 
calculations, the observed splitting in the cation spectrum was 
ascribed primarily to the spin coupling of the unpaired electron in 
the partially vacant  orbital with the unpaired electrons resulting 
from the excitation of one of the carbon 1s electrons to the vacant 
 orbitals.9,10 JahnTeller relaxation causing symmetry distortion 
was also considered. Replacing one of the hydrogen atoms of Bz by a bromine atom 
lowers the D6h pointgroup symmetry of neutral Bz to C2v, and also 
lifts the neardegeneracies between the six core orbitals of the 
carbon atoms.


---

Description:
The atom bonded to the bromine atom, labeled as C, with increased transition energy.

Text:
In particular, the Br atom increases the transition 
energy of the carbon atom bonded to the bromine atom, here 
labeled as C. The two highest occupied molecular orbitals, (6b2) 
and (2a2), result from a splitting of the highest degenerate  
orbitals of Bz. The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) 
(6b2), with the lowest binding energy of 8.992 eV,11 shows partial 
bromine character.12,13,14 The major electron density of the (6b2) 
orbital is distributed among several atoms, the C atom (0.46), the 
C atom that is in the para position to C (0.5), the Br atom (0.47) 
and among the other C atoms (0.56).12 The next lower (2a2), 
orbital of BrBz is noticeably shifted to lower energy (i.e., to higher 
binding energy, 9.663 eV) compared to the parent  orbital of Bz.


---

Description:
The 1s orbital nearest to bromine is shifted to higher binding energy by about 1.1 eV.

Text:
The next two lower molecular orbitals are 11b1 (Brtype) and 5b2 
(Brtype) that are related to the 4p bromine lone pair orbitals, 
which are split due to the interaction with the benzene ring.12,13,14 
The ionization energies from these two orbitals are 10.633 eV and 
11.188 eV, respectively.13 
The bromine atom affects the core level transition energies as 
well. Previous studies have shown that15 the 1s orbital of the carbon 
atom (C) nearest to the bromine atom is shifted to higher binding 
energy by about 1.1 eV relative to the 1s orbitals of the other 
carbons (C), as shown in the orbital diagram of BrBz in Figure 1.
