Description:
Elemental iron is quantified in ferrous sulfate supplements using cyclic voltammetry.

Text:
of cyclic voltammetry to upperlevel undergraduate chemistry 
students. This work presents a simple bufferfree cyclic voltammetry experiment for the quantification of elemental 
iron in ferrous sulfate supplements using standard addition to a single solution. The various student learning 
outcomes highlighted in this work include the introduction to the basic principles of cyclic voltammetry, the 
construction of a calibration curve based on the RandlesSevcik equation, obtaining a linear regression equation 
using Microsoft excel, acid digestion of drug supplements, and quality assurance through a statistical evaluation of 
experimental data. This laboratory experiment also emphasizes the advantages of using the method of a standard 
addition to a single solution.


---

Description:
Involved in critical metabolic processes such as hemoglobin and myoglobin synthesis, cell proliferation and regulation, and DNA synthesis.

Text:
INTRODUCTION 
The role of elemental iron in living organisms is implicated in critical metabolic processes such as hemoglobin and 
myoglobin synthesis, cell proliferation and regulation, and DNA synthesis.


---

Description:
An essential element stored primarily in hemoglobin and ferritin, crucial for preventing iron deficiency anemia.

Text:
13 About onefifth of iron in the body is 
stored in an intracellular protein called ferritin, with seventy percent stored in hemoglobin.3,4 Chronically low iron 
levels either through blood loss, pregnancy, or inadequate iron intake can cause iron depletion over time, resulting 
in iron deficiency anemia.5,6 Iron intake through food fortification or medicinal supplementation has been shown to 
be effective in preventing and treating iron deficiency anemia.57 Excess iron intake, on the other hand, has been 
linked to the etiology of a variety of chronic diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease.8 Ferrous 
sulfate supplements are often prescribed to prevent or treat iron deficiency anemia.912 It is administered orally as a 
liquid, tablet, or capsule.13 In the context of possible low iron intake or overload, the validation of the actual amount 
of iron contained in ferrous sulfate supplements is imperative.


---

Description:
A metal commonly analyzed in trace element analysis using various analytical techniques.

Text:
Trace element analysis of metals including iron has been an integral part of most undergraduate chemistry 
laboratory experiments.1315 These experiments exploit a myriad of analytical techniques and instrumentation, also 
providing students the opportunity to work with reallife samples. Cyclic voltammetry offers a versatile 
electroanalytical technique for both qualitative and quantitative studies of redox active specie.1620 It can be used to 
determine the diffusional coefficient and reduction potentials of an analyte for qualitative purposes.1718 The 
concentration of a redox active specie in a Nernstian system is proportional to peak current (Equation 1) allowing 
for the quantitative determination of analyte concentration. 17,18
