Description:
A material used in the etching of nanopores for applications in microsieves, optical sensors, x-ray mirrors, photovoltaics, and photonic crystals.

Text:
Etching of nanopores in silicon is of interest in the research of microsieves1, optical
sensors2, xray mirrors3, photovoltaics,4 photonic crystals,57 and many more topics. Each application has its own requirements for what is needed from a pore, be it length,
diameter, high aspect ratio, smooth walls or a particular shape such as conical or cylindrical. Depending on the required application, there are multiple strategies for etching pores in
silicon, for example, wet etching1, 3, metal assisted chemical etching2, electrochemical
etching4, 5 and dry etching techniques such as reactive ion etching (RIE).1, 6, 8, 9
Reactive ion etching (RIE) is a dry etching process which is compatible with complemen
tary metaloxidesemiconductor (CMOS) methods used in the semiconductor industry.


---

Description:
A material that reacts with reactive gases to form volatile species, often used in etching processes.

Text:
RIE
is often used to remove silicon from substrates in situations where metal contamination from
wet etching is undesirable or in situations where wet etching would not give the required
directionality.812 RIE uses a reactive gas that reacts with the silicon to form volatile
species which are pumped away, thereby removing silicon. This reaction is quasiisotropic
since the removal of silicon typically happens in all directions almost equally. Since isotropy
is undesirable when creating high aspect ratio structures such as nanopores, or trenches, an
extra step is needed to make the etch process anisotropic. One class of devices that requires high aspect ratio structures is photonic crystals.


---

Description:
A material used in photonic crystals with a periodic arrangement of nanopores to manipulate light wavelengths.

Text:
Pho
tonic crystals are formed by a periodic variance of a high and low refractive index materials,
such as a periodic arrangement of nanopores etched in silicon. The scale of the periodicity
needs to be on the length scale of the wavelength of light for which a band gap is desired, for
example the near infrared, which is of interest for telecommunications.13 The diameter of
the nanopores is chosen to obtain a low silicon to air ratio to maximize the photonic strength
of the crystal.14 Tuning the nanopore diameter and pitch of the pores allows one to control
the position and width of the photonic band gap, comparable to how doping changes the
electronic band gap in semiconductors.


---

Description:
Used in the fabrication of 2D and 3D photonic crystals, requiring precise control over nanopore characteristics.

Text:
For the fabrication of both 2D15, 16 and 3D silicon
photonic crystals,5, 7 it is important to have good control over the shape, diameter, length
and roughness of the side wall of the nanopores. For certain classes of photonic crystals, the
etched structures must be as close to a perfect cylinder of a precise diameter as possible,
that is, little to no tapering, minimal scalloping and no under etch. Previously, Woldering
et al.17 explored the eects or deviations in diameter, tapering and pore misalignment,
2
