Description:
Known for its polarity due to the presence of oxygen.

Text:
Fourmembered rings can generally withstand practical appli
cations despite their stereoelectronic distortion. Recently, they 
have attracted particular attention in the field of drug discovery 
because of their conformational rigidity.1 In particular, oxetane 
and azetidine are known for their polarity, which arises from the 
heteroatoms, i.e., oxygen and nitrogen, respectively. Bioactive 
molecules designed to incorporate these motifs are expected to 
show high selectivity for target proteins, as well as other bene
ficial properties such as hydrophilicity, solubility, and meta
bolic stability. Notably, following the milestone study by Car
reira et al., who revealed that 3,3disubstituted oxetanes are bi
oisosteres of carbonyl or gemdimethyl groups, the construction 
and metabolism of the oxetane motif have been extensively ex
plored (Figure 1A).2 Stepan et al.


---

Description:
A motif found in the structure of biologically active natural products and commercial drugs.

Text:
reported that gemdime
thyloxetane shows slightly higher metabolic stability than do 
3,3disubstituted oxetanes in a secretase inhibitor designed by 
the researchers.3 Fish et al. reported an EC50 improvement by 
azetidine incorporation into the 5HT2C agonist.4 The oxetane or 
azetidine motif can be also found in the structure of biologically 
active natural products and commercial drugs (e.g., paclitaxel 
and azelnidipine).2b,5 
 Recently, synthetic methods for fourmembered heterocycles 
have been reinvestigated to meet the high demand for these 
compounds in drug discovery,2b,56 and this places high priority 
on the three dimensionality of small molecules (Figure 1B).7 A 
typical synthetic method applicable to both oxetane and azet
idine is intramolecular displacement.


---

Description:
A synthetically challenging four-membered heterocycle.

Text:
Following our report on 
cobaltcatalyzed MHATRPC reactions,15 this catalytic system 
has been extensively utilized in cycloisomerizations,16 depro
tective cyclizations,17 intermolecular additions,18 rearrange
ments,19 asymmetric variants,20 and polymerizations.21 Notably, 
our group,16a,17 Pronin,19a and Zhu22 have reported various cy
cloisomerizations to furnish numerous cyclic ethers and cyclic 
amines except for the synthetically challenging fourmembered 
heterocycles. Fourmembered heterocycles has not been formed 
by cycloisomerization, even in other catalytic reactions.23 Two 
points must be considered when attempting oxetane or azetidine 
formation via MHATRPCmediated cycloisomerization. First, 
the general rate of formation of saturated cyclic compounds by 
intramolecular displacement reactions follows the order 5  6  
3  7  4  810 rings.24
