Description:
Forms significantly smaller nanoparticles centered at 1.9 nm compared to RhSiO2.

Text:
of 
Rh through a second grafting step using Rh(COD)(DIA) (Figure 1a). IR spectroscopy was used 

to monitor the grafting process (Figure 1b) grafting of Rh(COD)(DIA) on MnIISiO2 shows 
a decrease in intensity of the surface silanols and the appearance of similar IR bands as 
observed during grafting on silica (vide supra). Upon treatment under H2 at 400 oC, all organic 
ligands are removed and the surface silanols are regenerated (Figure 1b). This material is 
henceforth denoted RhMnSiO2. TEM shows the formation of significantly smaller 
nanoparticles for RhMnSiO2 centered at 1.9 nm (Figure 1c), when compared to monometallic 
RhSiO2, which already suggests a substantial influence of Mn on the nanoparticle structure.


---

Description:
Contains 2.3 wt Rh and 1.45 wt Mn, with a ca. 11 molar ratio of RhMn.

Text:
The metal loadings in RhMnSiO2 and RhSiO2, analyzed by inductively coupled 
plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICPOES), are similar with ca. 2.3 wt Rh. The 
RhMnSiO2 also contains 1.45 wt Mn, which corresponds to a ca. 11 molar ratio of RhMn 
(Table S1). We also carried out H2 and CO chemisorption to better characterize the surface 
state of Rh (Table S1 and Figure S14S15). The H2 and CO uptake found RhMnSiO2 are 
both higher than for RhSiO2, implying that the Rh nanoparticles are smaller in the presence 
of Mn promoter. Note that H2CO chemisorption is not effective for estimating the metal 
dispersion in case of Rh due to the multiple adsorption of hydrogen and the complicated CO 
adsorption modes. 11 

Figure 1.


---

Description:
A product synthesized from the second grafting of Rh(COD)(DIA) on MnIISiO2.

Text:
(a) Schematic procedure for grafting of Rh(COD)(DIA) on MnIISiO2 followed by reduction 
under H2 at 400 oC. (b) IR spectra throughout the synthesis of RhMnSiO2 starting from the second 
grafting. (c) Particle size distribution and TEM images of RhMnSiO2.
