Description:
A metal used as an anode in solidstate batteries due to its high capacity.

Text:
Solidstate battery electrolytes overcome the traditional safety concerns of leakage and unimpeded dendrite 
growth in liquid state electrolytes and can be used with a lithium metal anode1,2. The high capacity of 
lithium metal anodes3, combined with stacking efficiency due to structural integrity of the solidstate 
electrolytes4 means that high volumetric and specific energy densities can be achieved in solidstate 
batteries. Inorganic solidstate electrolytes show significantly higher ionic conductivities compared to solid 
polymer electrolytes3, making all solidstate batteries with inorganic solid electrolytes a promising next
generation technology for energy storage. NMR spectroscopy of solidstate battery electrolytes have been used to measure the diffusion constant and 
its temperature dependence2,5,6. The diffusion constant is intrinsically linked to the ionic conductivity of the 
solidstate electrolyte through the NernstEinstein equation2,6.


---

Description:
Involved in diffusion processes measurable by NMR techniques and affected by spin-spin relaxation time.

Text:
Puled field gradient (PFG) NMR allows for 
direct measurement of the Li diffusion constant68. However, due to small values of the diffusion constant 
and the short Li spinspin relaxation time, measurements of the Li diffusion in solidstate electrolytes 
typically requires specialized PFG probes with gradient strength  10 Tm7,8. Alternatively, the 
BloembergenBloomPurcell (BPP) model9 for the dipolar interaction between two Li nuclei is used to 
relate the NMR relaxation rates with the correlation time of interaction between two lithium ions. The 
correlation time is then used to estimate Li diffusion constant through the EinsteinSmoluchowski 
equation2,5,6. In this work, we measure the spinlattice relaxation time (T1), spinspin relaxation rate (T2), resonance 
linewidth () and the consequent coherence time of the resonance (2
