Description:
A compound that requires fine adjustment for applications due to thermal stability issues and overlapping absorption spectra of its isomers.

Text:
Hence, there is an 
increasing number of applications, such as switchable polymers 
including 
liquid 
crystal 
elastomers,6 
molecular 
photo
mechanics,7 biomedical applications,4c, 8 data storage,9 solar 
thermal fuels,10 and many more.11 For each application, the 
azobenzene has to be finely adjusted for its task due to two 
main issues.12 Firstly, the thermal stability of the less stable 
isomer can cause an unavoidable background isomerization.13 
Secondly, the overlap of the absorption spectra of the isomers 
result in photostationary states (PSS) of low selectivity for either 
isomer at a particular wave length;14 this is typically 
compounded by wavelength dependent quantum yields.


---

Description:
A compound with high thermal stability in the Z-form, with a reported half-life of 92 hours at 60°C in acetonitrile.

Text:
Current research focuses on orthosubstituted azobenzenes 
to reach thermally stable Zisomers or an absorption in the 
visible range of light.12, 1415 Switching occurs with wavelengths 
as long as 720 nm,16 and the PSS can be very selective (PSSZ 91 
and PSSE 86 for tetraorthofluorinated azobenzene).14 In 
addition, they show some of the highest thermal stabilities in 
the Zform (a halflife of 92 h at 60 C in acetonitrile has been 
reported for the tetraorthofluorinated azobenzene).15a 
Despite the utility of orthosubstituted azobenzenes, there 
are few synthetic methods available for their synthesis (Scheme 
1a).3, 17 They can be prepared from appropriately substituted 
anilines15a, 15c, 18 and further functionalized via nucleophilic 
substitution,19 or through transition metalcatalyzed CH 
activation.15e, 20 In this fashion, azobenzenes decorated with 
carbon,21 oxygen,21a, 22 nitrogen19b, 23 and halide19b, 20 
substituents in the orthoposition have been synthesized.


---

Description:
Can serve as an organometallic nucleophilic component or as an electrophilic halogenated cross-coupling partner.

Text:
Drawbacks with these methods include the need for transition 
metal catalysts and long reaction times at elevated 
temperatures. Surprisingly, the literature is void of cross
coupling methods in the orthoposition, irrespective of whether 
the azobenzene moiety serves as organometallic nucleophilic 
component or as electrophilic halogenated crosscoupling 
partner,17 despite access to orthometalated azobenzenes.24 
Hypervalent iodine(III) compounds are efficient reagents for 
a wide range of transformations under mild reaction 
conditions.25 Diaryliodonium salts have been recognized as 
Scheme 1 Orthosubstituted azobenzenes. a. Department of Organic Chemistry, Arrhenius Laboratory 
Stockholm University, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden 
Email berit.olofssonsu.se 
b. University of Bremen 
 Institute for Analytical and Organic Chemistry 
 Leobener Str. 7, D28359 Bremen, Germany 
 Email staubitzunibremen.de 
c. University of Bremen, MAPEX Center for Materials and Processes, 
 Bibliothekstrae 1, D28359 Bremen, Germany
