Description:
Involved in substitution reactions for forming carbon-carbon and carbon-heteroatom bonds.

Text:
The halohydrocarboninvolved substitution reaction is one 
of the most classic transformations in organic chemistry for 
the formation of carboncarbon and carbonheteroatom 
bonds.14 With the utilization of halohydrocarbons such as 
aryl, alkenyl, and alkyl halides as reactants, a large number 
of optically active molecules have been constructed via 
SNAr,5 SN1, or SN2 substitutions,67 or via couplings.813 
Among these reactions, the catalytic asymmetric substi
tution reactions of readily available amino acid derivatives 
with halohydrocarbons provide a highly efficient pathway 
for the preparation of optically active unnatural disub
stituted amino acids.1420 However, in those reported 
methodologies, protection and deprotection manipulations 
are always unavoidable (Figure 1, path a).


---

Description:
Compounds that can be used in the direct asymmetric hydrocarbylation of amino acid esters.

Text:
Notably, an ideal 
catalytic strategy leading to such products could directly 
promote the hydrocarbylation of Nunprotected amino 
acid esters with high efficiency (Figure 1, path b); however, 
such a valuable methodology has never been disclosed until 
now. The unique property of chiral aldehyde catalysis,2124 di
rectly promoting the asymmetric functionalization of N
unprotected amino acid esters, has been demonstrated in 
alkylation,25 Michael addition,2628 Mannich,2930 aldol,3133 
allylation,3436 benzylation,37 and propargylation38 reactions. We envisioned that this strategy may be promising for the 
direct asymmetric hydrocarbylation of amino acid esters 
with halohydrocarbons. However, it was challenging to con
trol the chemoselectivity of CNfunctionalization in this 
transformation.


---

Description:
Serve as electrophiles in aldehyde-catalyzed hydrocarbylation reactions with amino acid esters.

Text:
In the previously reported reactions em
ploying chiral aldehyde catalysis, either the electrophiles 
were gradually generated in situ during the reaction process 
(for alkylation, allylation, benzylation, and propargylation 
reactions), or the Nfunctionalization side products were 
unstable and reversely decomposed to starting material 
(for Michael, Mannich, and aldol reactions). Therefore, the 
side reaction of Nfunctionalization in those reactions was 
efficiently suppressed. In our proposed reaction, chiral al
dehydecatalyzed hydrocarbylation of Nunprotected 
amino acid esters with halohydrocarbons, the equivalent 
amounts of halohydrocarbon electrophiles and the possible 
formation of stable Nhydrocarbylation byproducts made 
chemoselectivity more difficult to control. Thus, it was nec
essary to develop an aldehydecatalyzed direct hydro
carbylation reaction of amino acid esters with improved 
chemoselectivity and enantioselectivity.
