Description:
Low-valent complexes that promote reductive couplings between carbonyl compounds and unsaturated carbon-carbon bonds.

Text:
For instance, lowvalent nickel(0) complexes promote 
reductive couplings between carbonyl compounds and unsaturated carboncarbon bonds 
utilizing the electrophilic nature of the carbonyl group12 (Fig. 1a). These transformations 
proceed through an oxidative cyclization mechanism and subsequent hydride transfer from an 
external hydride source4,14. A variety of 1,3dienes, allenes, enynes, alkynes can serve as the 
nucleophilic component leading to the formation of alkylated or alkenylated secondary and 
tertiary alcohols4. A range of chiral ligands were used for enantioselective transformations15, 
16. In stark contrast, examples for the complementary functionalization of carbonyls with 
olefins under nickel(0) catalysis are scarce despite being highly desirable synthetic tools 
17 ,18 ,19 ,20.


---

Description:
Catalyzes nondirected (hetero)arene C(sp2)H activations and olefin hydroarylations under mild conditions.

Text:
Unlike the abovedescribed reductive couplings amenable to a variety of CC 
unsaturations, the redoxneutral ketone functionalizations so far very limited and only 
observed with selected 1,3dienes17,18. The transformations require either harsh conditions 
andor the addition of base or wateralcohols for a reactive catalyst system. These eventually 
lead to epimerization of sensitive stereocenters and thus pose challenges for diastereo andor 
enantioselective processes. Thus, a more general approach is desirable and would be of a high 
synthetic value. Transitionmetal catalyzed CH bond functionalization became an important tool to construct 
CC bonds21,22,23,24. In this context, nondirected nickel(0)catalyzed (hetero)arene C(sp2)H 
activations and downstream reaction with olefins opened a successful strategy towards olefin 
hydroarylations under relatively mild conditions and full atomefficiency (Fig. 1b)25,26,27,28.


---

Description:
A catalyst that facilitates ligand-to-ligand hydrogen transfer and ketone functionalization.

Text:
Mechanistically, the underlying nickelcatalyzed C(sp2)H bond activation process operates 
via a ligandtoligand hydrogen transfer (LLHT)29 instead of the typical oxidative addition 
process30. The C(sp2)C(sp3)reductive elimination is considered as the rate determining step 
(Figure 1b). Based on these findings, we hypothesized that an extension of this concept could 
help to address the C(sp3)H bond of ketones under comparable conditions and open new 
catalysis manifold for ketone functionalizations (Fig. 1c). This pivotal step could be either 
envisaged by coordination of the ketone and acceptor olefin to the nickel(0) triggering a LLHT 
of the carbonyl C(sp3)H. The LLHT would involve a 7membered transition state and lead 
to a favorable oxaallyl nickel(II) species. Alternatively, one could formulate a C(sp3)H 
oxidative addition forming oxaallyl nickel(II) hydride.
