Description:
Can react as an electrophilic component or serve as a pronucleophile at the carbon in their enolized form.

Text:
The selective formation of carboncarbon bonds is a cornerstone of organic synthesis1. In this 
respect, the carbonyl group is particularly relevant due to its dual role. It can either react as 
electrophilic component, or serve as a pronucleophile at the carbon in their enolized form to 
react with a broad range of external electrophiles 2 , 3 . In comparison to conventional 
nucleophiles or electrophiles, nonactivated olefins exhibit much lower reactivity and generally 
require a transitionmetal catalyst to engage in reaction with carbonyl compounds4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11. Over the past decade, the transition from precious metals to catalysts based on earthabundant 
metals made impressive progress, and especially nickel became a powerful tool due to its low
cost and unique reactivity profiles12,13.


---

Description:
Compounds that participate in reductive couplings with unsaturated carbon-carbon bonds utilizing their electrophilic nature.

Text:
For instance, lowvalent nickel(0) complexes promote 
reductive couplings between carbonyl compounds and unsaturated carboncarbon bonds 
utilizing the electrophilic nature of the carbonyl group12 (Fig. 1a). These transformations 
proceed through an oxidative cyclization mechanism and subsequent hydride transfer from an 
external hydride source4,14. A variety of 1,3dienes, allenes, enynes, alkynes can serve as the 
nucleophilic component leading to the formation of alkylated or alkenylated secondary and 
tertiary alcohols4. A range of chiral ligands were used for enantioselective transformations15, 
16. In stark contrast, examples for the complementary functionalization of carbonyls with 
olefins under nickel(0) catalysis are scarce despite being highly desirable synthetic tools 
17 ,18 ,19 ,20.


---

Description:
A functional group involved in C(sp3)H bond activation through ligand-to-ligand hydrogen transfer.

Text:
Mechanistically, the underlying nickelcatalyzed C(sp2)H bond activation process operates 
via a ligandtoligand hydrogen transfer (LLHT)29 instead of the typical oxidative addition 
process30. The C(sp2)C(sp3)reductive elimination is considered as the rate determining step 
(Figure 1b). Based on these findings, we hypothesized that an extension of this concept could 
help to address the C(sp3)H bond of ketones under comparable conditions and open new 
catalysis manifold for ketone functionalizations (Fig. 1c). This pivotal step could be either 
envisaged by coordination of the ketone and acceptor olefin to the nickel(0) triggering a LLHT 
of the carbonyl C(sp3)H. The LLHT would involve a 7membered transition state and lead 
to a favorable oxaallyl nickel(II) species. Alternatively, one could formulate a C(sp3)H 
oxidative addition forming oxaallyl nickel(II) hydride.
