Description:
A propionic acid derivative used to treat inflammation and pain, characterized by poor water solubility.

Text:
Naproxen is a propionic acid derivative that is commonly used overthecounter (OTC) to treat inflammation and pain. NSAIDs such as naproxen are nonselective inhibitors of the cyclooxygenase1 (COX1) and cyclooxygenase2 (COX2)
enzymes. These enzymes produce the prostaglandins responsible for pain, inflammation, and fever5. Naproxen is
characterized by its poor water solubility, and is sold commercially as the sodium salt form in order to increase the
absorption rate. In recent times, polymeric conjugated drugs have emerged to improve the bioavailability of drugs while
reducing adverse effects. Standard polymeric prodrugs are created using a polymer carrier to which a drug is covalently
bound to. Such conjugated drugs exist as a method for modifying pharmacokinetic and biodistribution properties of
compounds6.


---

Description:
A molecular drug used in the preparation of NaproxenPEG ester.

Text:
Using a polymeric conjugation method to increase overall stability can decrease the required dosage of a
drug, reducing the potential toxicity and adverse effects of a drug, increasing the therapeutic efficacy. For such conjugation
procedure polyethylene glycol (PEG) was chosen due to its watersoluble and nontoxic behavior as well as the increased
potential for bioavailability7. Naproxen was selected as the molecular drug which was covalently linked to PEG for
preparing NaproxenPEG ester via Steglich Esterification. Additionally, chromatographic and spectrophotometric
evaluation of drug release from naproxenPEG conjugate in various media demonstrate the capacity for extended
pharmacological effect, due to a greater release profile. 2. Experimental Methods
2.1. Materials And Methods
All materials were obtained from Sigma Aldrich, except the OTC forms of acetaminophen and ibuprofen.


---

Description:
A pharmaceutical compound used in commercially available tablets.

Text:
These were
obtained in the commercially available pharmaceutical grade. Commercial acetaminophen (1.00 g), ibuprofen (1.00 g), and naproxen (1.00 g) tablets were dissolved in dimethyl
formamide using a 25 mL volumetric flask, respectively. The same process was repeated with a 1.00g sample of
naproxenPEG conjugate that was dissolved in dimethyl formamide. A TLC chamber was prepared with 10 ethyl acetate
(vv) in hexanes with a paper towel blotter. This was allowed to equilibrate while the TLC plates were prepared. A sample
of each was taken with a capillary tube, and was spotted onto each of 3 silica TLC plates (silica gel 60 matrix, Millipore
Sigma). Two beakers with watch glass covers were prepared with 5 and 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes.
