Description:
Undergoes volumetric expansion during discharge in lithium-sulfur batteries.

Text:
Lithiumsulfur (LiS) batteries are considered as one of the candidates for nextgeneration
energystorage devices. Despite their very high specific energy, commercialization of LiS bat
teries is negatively affected by few drawbacks, such as irreversible capacity fade and volumet
ric expansion of the crystalline sulfur during the discharge. Recently, a huge amount of stud
ies has been concentrated on using polymeric sulfur cathodes to overcome these problems. In
particular, sulfurcarbon copolymers such as poly(sulfurn1,3diisopropenylbenzene) (SDIB)
have attracted much attention. Thanks to a straightforward synthesis procedure,1,2 SDIB
copolymers could be mass produced relatively easily. In addition, it has been demonstrated
that SDIB copolymers show a promising performance in alleviating the shuttle effect and
therefore, can result in a stable cycling performance of a LiS battery.


---

Description:
Forms chains of varying lengths, with short chains showing higher formation probability in certain conditions.

Text:
Nevertheless, to this day neither the lithiation mechanism of SDIB copolymer cath
odes has been entirely resolved at an atomistic level, nor their structural evolution during
the discharge has been fully understood. A first step towards understanding the discharge
mechanism of the SDIB copolymers is to decipher their structural properties at the fully
charged state of the battery, where no lithiation reaction has occurred. It has been recently
found that short Sn chains (n 4) show a higher formation probability compared to other
sulfur chain lengths.


---

Description:
Forms short chains in sulfur-carbon copolymer materials.

Text:
It has also been observed that the stability of SDIB copolymers is
brought about by the formation of short S chains.3 In addition, short S chains have been
predicted4 and reported5,6 to be more favorable in other sulfurcarbon copolymer materials
involving organic groups interconnected via sulfur chains. The formation of Lipolysulfides
during discharge has been shown to be largely hindered in SDIB copolymer cathode involv
ing short S chains and therefore, they exhibit a much better performance in terms of cycle
2
