Description:
Isoelectronic with silicon with respect to the valence shell.

Text:
Diamond, known mainly in the cubic form, has a less common hexagonal form called lonsdaleite. Such structures are also observed in binary SiC, and the different phases are called polytypes, which 
are distinguished by the stacking of layers, usually labeled ABC AB in 2H (2 layers; hexagonal 
system), ABC in 3C (3 layers; cubic system), ABCB in 4H (4 layers; hexagonal system), etc. 1. Silicon and carbon are isoelectronic with respect to the valence shell, and diamond has analogous 
polytypes, with the best known being 3C, which corresponds to cubic diamond, and 2H, which 
corresponds to lonsdaleite. Other diamond polytypes 4H, 8H, 9R to 21R (R for rhombohedral) have 
been identified with calculated Xray diffraction data published by Ownby et al. in 1992 2.


---

Description:
Forms various allotropes such as diamond, lonsdaleite, and polytypes like 4H diamond and rhombohedral 9R.

Text:
Recently, it has been shown that a novel class of machinelearningbased interatomic potentials can 
be used for random structure search and readily predicts several hitherto unknown carbon allotropes 
3, allowing them to be identified with topology labels such as dia (diamond), lon (lonsdaleite), and 
for polytypes cfc for 4H diamond, cfe for rhombohedral 9R. In view of the enormous number of 
carbon allotropes, experimentally found and theoretically predicted, a database SACADA has been 
created to store them with topologies and identifiers; 9R allotrope (hRC18 in Pearson notation) 
studied here and classified with cfe topology and database code 447 4.


---

Description:
Commonly exhibits sp3, sp2, and sp1 hybridizations in organic chemistry.

Text:
In 3C and 2H diamond, as well as in the extended lattice polytypes, the valence 4 electrons (2s2, 2p2) 
arrange in tetrahedra with sp3like hybridization; note that this term, as well as other carbon 
hybridizations (sp2 and sp1), are common in organic chemistry, and less so in the solid state 
chemistry; nevertheless, they are useful for establishing the chemical description of the bonding and 
the resulting physical and chemical properties. For applications such as electronics, the physical properties of diamond can be modified by 
introducing trigonal C(sp2)  double CC bonds as in ethene  and linear C(sp1)  triple CC bonds as 
in acetylene  on the one hand, and by working on the particle size as in nanodiamonds, on the other 
hand.


---

Description:
Atoms that can exist in different hybridization states such as sp2 and sp1.

Text:
The purpose of the present work was to study the changes 
in the mechanical and electronic properties of cfe 9R (hRC18) allotrope, referred to as C18 in the 
present work, by the insertion of sp2 and sp1 carbon atoms in two stoichiometries, based on crystal 
chemistry rationale and subsequent firstprinciples ground state energy calculations of stable 
structures and derived quantities within the wellestablished quantum mechanics framework of the 
density functional theory DFT 9,10. The two novel allotropes eneC21 with sp3sp2 mixed
