Description:
Known mainly in the cubic form with a less common hexagonal form called lonsdaleite.

Text:
Diamond, known mainly in the cubic form, has a less common hexagonal form called lonsdaleite. Such structures are also observed in binary SiC, and the different phases are called polytypes, which 
are distinguished by the stacking of layers, usually labeled ABC AB in 2H (2 layers; hexagonal 
system), ABC in 3C (3 layers; cubic system), ABCB in 4H (4 layers; hexagonal system), etc. 1. Silicon and carbon are isoelectronic with respect to the valence shell, and diamond has analogous 
polytypes, with the best known being 3C, which corresponds to cubic diamond, and 2H, which 
corresponds to lonsdaleite. Other diamond polytypes 4H, 8H, 9R to 21R (R for rhombohedral) have 
been identified with calculated Xray diffraction data published by Ownby et al. in 1992 2.


---

Description:
In 3C and 2H diamond, the valence 4 electrons arrange in tetrahedra with sp3like hybridization.

Text:
In 3C and 2H diamond, as well as in the extended lattice polytypes, the valence 4 electrons (2s2, 2p2) 
arrange in tetrahedra with sp3like hybridization; note that this term, as well as other carbon 
hybridizations (sp2 and sp1), are common in organic chemistry, and less so in the solid state 
chemistry; nevertheless, they are useful for establishing the chemical description of the bonding and 
the resulting physical and chemical properties. For applications such as electronics, the physical properties of diamond can be modified by 
introducing trigonal C(sp2)  double CC bonds as in ethene  and linear C(sp1)  triple CC bonds as 
in acetylene  on the one hand, and by working on the particle size as in nanodiamonds, on the other 
hand.


---

Description:
Characterized by ultrahardness and semimetallic electronic structure due to the presence of C(sp2).

Text:
Indeed, recent works have shown that nanodiamonds with mixed C(sp2)C(sp3) hybridization 
play an important role in designing advanced electronic materials 5. Zhai et al. highlighted 
electrochemical applications of hybrid diamondsp2C nanostructures 6. Furthermore, regarding 
other mixed carbon hybridizations, sp3sp1 were recently identified in superhard socalled yne
diamond, which is classified as semimetallic 7. In this context, we considered the reduction of the sp2sp3 extended stoichiometries allotropes, and 
C10, C14 and C18 were proposed as derived respectively from 4H, 6H and 8H diamond polytypes, 
respectively, and also characterized by ultrahardness close to diamond, and semimetallic electronic 
structure due to the presence of C(sp2) 8.
