Description:
Used in the formation of Grignard reagents through its reaction with a halide.

Text:
Organomagnesium halides, better known as Grignard reagents, 
are formed by the exothermic reaction of metallic magnesium 
(usually turnings or powder) with a halide in an anhydrous, 
etheric solvent. Grignard reagents can be used for the 
formation of new carboncarbon bonds and are one of the most 
important intermediates in such reactions.1 Both on a small 
scale in a glass flask in chemical laboratories, and on a larger 
scale in stirred vessels in the chemical industry, Grignard 
reagents are prepared in a dosingcontrolled semi batch process 
based on placing a certain mass of magnesium together with a 
small amount of the halide in the solvent in the stirred vessel 
and then slowly adding the remaining halidesolvent mixture2.


---

Description:
Used in Grignard reagent synthesis, where a high surface area enhances mass transport.

Text:
Because of the exothermic nature of the reaction, the reaction 
temperatures must be closely controlled to avoid a thermal 
runaway and hazardous situations. A challenge of the synthesis 
of Grignard reagents is the Wurtz coupling product. This 
byproduct is formed by reaction of alreadyformed Grignard 
reagent with the halide reactant (figure 1). The formation of this 
byproduct decreases the yield of the Grignard reagent and the 
purity of the product obtained. Thus, the formation of the 
Wurtz coupling product must be avoided as much as possible. The formation of the Wurtz coupling product can be reduced by 
various means low reaction temperatures, low halide 
concentrations and low addition rates, as well as a high 
magnesium surface area and therewith mass transport1.


---

Description:
Used in plug flow reactor systems to control contact times and avoid hotspots in Grignard reactions.

Text:
Alternatively, 
continuously operated, magnesiumfilled plug flow reactor 
systems can be used to ideally keep contact times of the 
alreadymade Grignard reagent and the not yet reacted halide 
educt as short as possible. High surfacetovolume ratios, as 
they can be realized in micro and millistructured reactors, 
ensure beneficial heat transfer to avoid hotspots within the 
magnesium bed which would enhance Wurtz coupling. Reaction 
networks involving consecutive reactions, like the Grignard 
reaction system, can be controlled by providing the required 
processing experience to the molecules.6 Thus, controlling the 
residence time distribution represents a meaningful strategy to 
achieve high yields and supress undesired byproduct formation.


---

Description:
Used in reactor cartridges filled with metal turnings to influence residence time distribution.

Text:
Despite the laminar flow conditions in smallsized channels, 
micro and millistructured reactors frequently possess narrow 
residence time distributions, potentially approaching plug flow 
behaviour and the impact of this reactor technology to achieve 
a high degree of reaction control has been reported earlier.79 
The residence time distribution in packedbed reactors is more 
complicated than in empty channels. In part 1 of this 
contribution, the influence of the pumping characteristics and 
the properties of magnesium turnings on the residence time 
distribution in a reactor cartridge filled with metal turnings, has 
been reported. It was found that application of an oscillating 
flow influences the residence time distribution and axial 
a. Fraunhofer IMM, CarlZeissStrasse 1820, 55129 MainzGermany. b. Ulm University, HelmholtzStrasse 16, 89081 UlmGermany.


---

Description:
Reacts with halide RX to form Grignard reagent RMgX.

Text:
Corresponding authors 
Gabriele MengesFlanagan, gabriele.mengesflanaganimm.fraunhofer.de 
Dirk Ziegenbalg, dirk.ziegenbalguniulm.de 
Electronic Supplementary Information (ESI) available Distribution functions for 
residence time measurements, pictures of Grignard reagent synthesis in a stirred 
tank (semicontinuous batch mode). Figure 1 Formation of Grignard reagent RMgX from halide RX and magnesium Mg and 
subsequent formation of the Wurtz coupling product RR by reaction of Grignard 
reagent RMgX with halide reactant RX.
