Description:
Reacts at the surface of the secondary particle and diffuses into the particle through the bulk and possibly the grain boundaries.

Text:
The lithium insertion 
and removal rates are critical factors for power density68 and battery modeling. The standard 
model for ion insertion states that lithium reacts at the surface of the secondary particle617, and 
then diffuses into the particle through the bulk and possibly the grain boundaries18,19. Under this 
model, smaller particles would charge and discharge faster than larger particles due to shorter 
diffusion lengths and higher surfaceareatovolume ratios617. In this work, we evaluate the accuracy of this intuitive and widespread assumption that 
smaller particles charge and discharge faster. Inspired by the field of neuroscience20, we designed 
and developed a multielectrode array that enables highthroughput electrochemical cycling of 
many individual battery particles.


---

Description:
Involved in electrochemical cycling and transport within particles.

Text:
In contrast to previous works using microneedle 
contacts6,7,10,21,22 or scanning micropipettes2325 with limited numbers of particles analyzed, we 
conduct full electrochemical cycling and analysis on over 20 individual particles under identical 
conditions. We thereby generate a statistically significant dataset on reaction and diffusion times 
for many particles. To our surprise, neither the diffusion nor the reaction times depend on the diameter (size) 
of the secondary particle, in stark contraction to the standard particle model of lithium transport 
within a particle617. Instead, our singleparticle electrochemistry data shows that the characteristic 
diffusion length is essentially independent of the secondary particle size26,27.


---

Description:
Facilitates transport by making the diffusion length independent of and much shorter than the secondary particle diameter.

Text:
We propose that our 
results may arise from intergranular cracking, which causes the electrolyte to penetrate into the 
secondary particle28,29, thereby facilitating lithium transport by making the diffusion length 
independent of and much shorter than the secondary particle diameter. Our work shows that the 
standard description of intraparticle lithium transport, whereby lithium enters the secondary 
particle surface and diffuses into the bulk, is not accurate for this material. As a result, the widely
used DoyleFullerNewman electrochemical model9 should be revised for polycrystalline NMC 
particles. This work has substantial implications towards the design of cathode materials. It further 
shows the potential of highthroughput, singleparticle measurements to unveil the kinetics of 
electrochemical systems and other energy materials at the micro to nanoscale.
