Description:
A potent atmospheric pollutant capable of causing severe health and environmental hazards.

Text:
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) is a toxic, colorless, and irritating gas with
a strong odor. It is a potent atmospheric pollutant capable of causing
severe health and environmental hazards and thus is extensively moni
tored with ongoing efforts to reduce its emissions. However, despite the
efforts, SO2 pollution remains a persistent issue. On one hand, natural
processes like volcanic activity, geothermal springs, organic matter de
composition, and anaerobic bacterial reduction remain constant sources
of SO2 1, 2. On the other, anthropogenic activities such as power
generation from fossil fuels, oil refining, and heating via combustion
of coal and natural gas remain the major contributors to the total emis
sions 36.


---

Description:
Solubilized in water and slowly oxidized by oxygen, ozone, or Criegee intermediates to form SO3.

Text:
Typical concentrations of SO2 in the atmosphere range
from tens to hundreds of ppt in uninhabited regions, through tens of ppb
in cities, up to hundreds of ppb in industrial areas 7, 8. SO2 released
into the atmosphere is solubilized in water and slowly oxidized by oxy
gen, ozone, or Criegee intermediates to SO3, which subsequently leads
to the formation of sulfuric acid 9, 10. Consequently, precipitations
in the form of rain, snow, fog, or hail containing sulfuric acid fall to the
ground, exerting a harmful effect on the environment and infrastructure
1113. SO2 absorbed through the respiratory system or skin can be
a threat to human health or even life.


---

Description:
Has low sensitivity in detection by TMD sensing platforms compared to other gases.

Text:
Similarly to graphene,
TMD sheets interact in bulk crystals via weak van der Waals (vdW)
forces and thus can be effectively exfoliated. Atoms within individual
sheets are covalently bonded and have satisfied valence. This makes
TMD surfaces chemically inert under most conditions, which limits
their surface interactions to physisorption. TMDs such as molybdenum disulfide (MoS2), have been shown
sensing platforms capable of effective detection of nitrogen dioxide
(NO2) 3235 and ammonia (NH3) 3538. However, their sensi
tivity toward other gas molecules (including SO2) was reported low
in comparison. The response of TMD sheets toward selected analytes
can be enhanced via substitutional doping 3948, or decoration of
their surfaces with single atoms 49, nanoparticles50, 51, and nan
otubes 18.
