Description:
A semiconducting material used as a photoanode with a band gap of 2.15 eV, matching the solar spectrum for solar water splitting applications.

Text:
Hydrogen production by solar water splitting (SWS) using abundant and ecofriendly photoelectrode 
materials is very appealing nowadays. The overall efficiency of SWS reaction is directly related to the 
photoelectrochemical (PEC) activity including both oxidation and reduction reactions that occur at the 
interface between photoelectrodes and the aqueous electrolyte. Hematite is the archetype semiconducting 
material used as photoanode, presenting a band gap of 2.15 eV, perfectly matching the solar spectrum for 
optimized absorption and thus for direct SWS applications.


---

Description:
Presents low efficiency in solar water splitting due to reduced hole mean free path and poor surface kinetics related to a complex oxygen evolution reaction.

Text:
Compared to stateoftheart oxide 
semiconductors1 used for solar water splitting, pristine hematite presents low efficiency because of the 
reduced hole mean free path ( 2  4 nm) and poor surface kinetics related to a complex oxygen evolution 
reaction (OER).26 It was demonstrated that surface kinetics during SWS can be tuned by controlling the 
surface states nature using various approaches doping,79 hetero and nanostructuring,1014 annealing,15,16 
catalyst film coating,1722 etc. In particular the synergic effect between Tidoping and induced oxygen 
vacancies through thermal treatments during or post growth under oxygen depleted atmosphere has 
shown its efficiency.2327 Various mechanisms were suggested to contribute to the enhancement of PEC 
activity.


---

Description:
A material whose photocurrent can be increased by annealing in nitrogen gas.

Text:
Zhao et al.24 have shown that by annealing pristine and Tidoped hematite photoanodes in Nitrogen 
gas at 600C the photocurrent is increased by 200  and 67  respectively. They assigned this enhancement 
to oxygen vacancies generated by nitrogen treatment, leading to carrier density increase. Opposite 
behaviors were found for the charge transfer processes, comparing pristine hematite and Tidoped 
hematite, suggesting increased transfer resistance for the later one. To the contrary, Wang et al.26 
demonstrated strong electrocatalytic surface contribution of the induced oxygen vacancies along to the 
expected improvement of the bulk conductivity. Such divergences arise from the variety of the employed 
sample preparation methods, leading to different sensitivities to subtle surface effects. These conclusions 
are obtained from PEC macroscopic measurements only, nanoscale information being absent.


---

Description:
A mineral form of iron(III) oxide, often used as a pigment and in catalysis.

Text:
A perfect 
demonstration is given by Zhang et al.,23 in the case of highly ordered attached Timodified hematite
