Description:
A critical element whose concentration is crucial in conditions such as hypoxia, ischemia, chronic kidney disease, and cancer.

Text:
Hypoxia, generally considered as an oxygen concentration of 2,1 is found in various diseases such 
as ischemia,2,3 chronic kidney disease4,5 and cancer.69 Indeed, oxygen concentrations as low as around 
1 may occur in ischemia1012 and cancer,13,14 and selective in vivo visualization of such severe 
hypoxia is especially important for monitoring and understanding these diseases. To analyze hypoxia 
in cellulo and in vivo, various fluorescence probes have been developed.1519 However, existing near
infrared (NIR) small molecular probes that can be effectively used in vivo are also activated at oxygen 
concentrations around 5.15,1921 Therefore, there is a need for the development of NIR fluorescence 
probes able to selectively detect severe hypoxia as in vivo analytical and diagnostic tools.


---

Description:
A factor affecting the fluorescence activation threshold of rhodamine-based hypoxia probes.

Text:
These fluorescence probes initially have no fluorescence due to fluorescence 
quenching by the azobenzene moiety incorporated in the fluorophore. Upon cleavage of the azo group 
by reductasecatalyzed reactions that are accelerated in hypoxia, corresponding fluorescent 
rhodamines are produced, enabling selective detection of hypoxia. However, the oxygen concentration 
threshold of these rhodaminebased hypoxia probes varies depending on the fluorescent scaffold. For 
example, MASR and 2,6diMe azoSiR640 switched on at around 0.1 and 5 oxygen concentration, 
respectively.21,23 These characteristics may be due to differences in the rate of reverse oxidation of the 
azo moiety depending on the fluorescent scaffold (Figure S1). Thus, we considered that the 
development of NIR probes to selectively detect severe hypoxia of around 1 oxygen concentration 
might be achieved by using different fluorophores.


---

Description:
A molecule whose concentration affects the responsiveness of the synthesized probe, TazoJSiR640, for detecting hypoxia.

Text:
The monojulolidinefused analog of SiR (JSiR) is widely used as a NIR fluorophore for biological 
imaging.24 In this study, we therefore examined JSiR as the scaffold fluorophore of a NIR fluorescence 
probe for hypoxia. We also evaluated the responsiveness of the synthesized probe, TazoJSiR640, to 
oxygen concentration and confirmed its utility to selectively detect severe hypoxia in vivo.
