Description:
Emissions from volcanic degassing are estimated using a HgSO2 emission ratio.

Text:
55 
While terrestrial volcanism is thought to be an important natural primary source of mercury (Hg) to the atmosphere, 
the magnitude of volcanic Hg fluxes remains highly uncertain. Estimates1 range from 45 Mg y1 to 2000 Mg y1, 
with the most recent study2 suggesting Hg emissions of 179  39 Mg y1 and 20  20 Mg y1 (mean  standard 
deviation) for passive and eruptive volcanic degassing, respectively. These estimates were mostly obtained by 
combining the estimated global volcanic SO2 flux with a HgSO2 emission ratio. Observed HgSO2 emission ratios, 
60 
however, can vary by several orders of magnitude between different volcanic systems 1,3. The speciation of Hg in volcanic plumes is less studied than total Hg emissions and is thus subject to even larger 
uncertainties 1.


---

Description:
Speciation and in-plume transformations affect its environmental impact.

Text:
This is problematic, as the fate of Hg in volcanic plumes and its environmental impact depends 
importantly on Hg speciation and inplume transformations. Gaseous elemental mercury (GEM) is waterinsoluble 
and thus not significantly removed from the atmosphere by wet deposition. Reactive mercury, on the other hand, 
65 
whether in the gas phase as gaseous oxidized mercury (GOM) or attached to particles as particlebound mercury 
(PBM), is considerably more watersoluble than GEM, making it subject to significant wet deposition. In addition, 
reactive mercury tends to have significantly larger dry deposition velocities than GEM 4. GEM consequently has 
a relatively long atmospheric lifetime (i.e.


---

Description:
Emitted mainly in the form of GEM from volcanic vents, undergoing partial oxidation in plumes.

Text:
efolding time) of  6 12 months which allows for global circulation 
and dispersal 5,6, while GOM and PBM have much shorter lifetimes (hours to days)7 and thus more regional impacts 
70 
through localized deposition. Volcanic plume chemistry is complex, particularly because conditions within a plume can differ greatly from 
typical atmospheric conditions, for example with regards to temperature, the concentration of radicals, particle 
loading, acidity, and sulfur and halogen contents. As the initial plume cools and mixes with background air, the 
speciation of atmospheric Hg likely evolves. Indeed, while emitted Hg is mainly in the form of GEM when it exits 
75 
the vent1,8,9, partial oxidation of volcanic GEM has been observed to occur within minutes upon plume cooling 
and dilution10.


---

Description:
An element whose atmospheric burden can be reduced by in-plume oxidation, shortening its atmospheric lifetime.

Text:
As volcanoes can be significant emitters of halogens11,12, it has been hypothesized that bromine chemistry, more 
specifically the socalled bromine explosion, could cause GEM oxidation in volcanic plumes1315. The bromine 
explosion, regularly observed at polar sunrise16,17, is an autocatalytic and heterogeneous photochemical reaction 
80 
mechanism that causes the rapid generation of bromine radicals1315, one of the most important GEM oxidants in 
the atmosphere5,6,18. Von Glasow (2010)13 suggested that such inplume GEM oxidation could significantly reduce 
the net contribution of volcanism to the atmospheric Hg burden by shortening the atmospheric lifetime of volcanic 
Hg as well as background Hg entrained during plume dilution.


---

Description:
A chemical element discussed in the context of atmospheric depletion events in volcanic plumes.

Text:
If GEM can indeed be efficiently scavenged by 
other plume constituents, GEM concentrations in a volcanic plume could conceivably fall below the atmospheric 
85 
background if the inplume scavenging outweighs volcanic emission. However, perhaps due to the difficulty of 
obtaining Hg measurements in an aged volcanic plume, such an event has not yet been reported. Here we present GEM depletion events in dilute and moderately aged (37 hours) volcanic plumes from Piton de 
La Fournaise on La Runion Island, observed 38.5 km away at Mado mountain observatory (2160 masl). With 
the help of a large set of ancillary observations, we thoroughly describe the observed GEM depletions, explore 
90 
possible drivers, and discuss implications for the atmospheric Hg budget.
