Description:
A well-known anti-inflammatory agent with limited clinical use due to gastrointestinal side effects and limited bioavailability.

Text:
Conjugation of drug molecules to
thiolcontaining biomolecules take advantage of thiolsensitivity for enhancing drug
bioavailability and efficacy. This approach involves the covalent attachment of drugs to
thiolcontaining biomolecules, through a cleavable linker that can act as a thiol switch. The
thioester bond is a specific type of cleavable linker that has been shown to be particularly
useful for thiol switchbased drug development.5 Thioester linkages are labile, and can be
easily cleaved through a mechanism known as thiolysis. This cleavage releases the drug from
the thiolcontaining biomolecule, leading to increased drug bioavailability and efficacy.6
Aspirin is a wellknown antiinflammatory agent that has been used clinically for decades. However, its clinical use is limited by its gastrointestinal side effects and limited
bioavailability.


---

Description:
Conjugated with thiol-containing biomolecules to improve solubility.

Text:
One approach to improve the solubility is to conjugate aspirin with a
thiolcontaining biomolecule, such as cysteine, through a thioester linker. In the body, the
presence of a redox environment, which involves the interplay of oxidizing and reducing
agents, can influence the behavior of the aspirincytosine conjugate.


---

Description:
Activated by reacting with EDC and NHS in dimethyl sulfoxide.

Text:
Experimental Methods
a. Synthesis of AspirinCysteine
The
synthesis
of
the
aspirincysteine
conjugate
was
performed
using
N(3dimethylaminopropyl)Nethylcarbodiimide
hydrochloride
(EDC)
and
Nhydroxysuccinimide (NHS) as coupling agents. First, cysteine and aspirin were activated
in separate reactions by reacting it with EDC and NHS in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) at
room temperature for 2 hours. The activated cysteine and aspirin were then combined in
DMSO and stirred at room temperature for 24 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. The EDC
method creates a thioester bond between the carboxyl group of the aspirin and the thiol group
