Description:
A carbon allotrope known for its superior mechanical and thermal properties.

Text:
Intensive research efforts are currently underway to identify novel carbon allotropes with the goal 
of achieving specific mechanical and thermal properties approaching those of diamond. For this 
purpose, modern materials research programs based on evolutionary crystallography are used to 
predict novel allotropes 1. Regarding the carbon database, SACADA 2 is recognized as a 
reliable one available to all researchers. The novel allotropes are subjected to topology analysis 
using TopCryst software 3 and then published in the Cambridge Structural Database (CCDC). Despite the help provided by AI in generating carbon stoichiometries and structures, the role of the 
physicist and chemist remains essential, especially in the crystal chemistry that underlies structural 
engineering.


---

Description:
An allotrope with a body-centered tetragonal structure, characterized by C4 tetrahedra and dia topology.

Text:
To illustrate this approach, and keeping in mind the C4 tetrahedron building block of diamond, a 
simple arrangement of 8 C4 tetrahedra at a cube corner and center is shown in Fig. 1a, with both 
ballandstick and tetrahedral representations exhibiting cornersharing tetrahedra. The resulting 
bodycentered tetragonal (bct) structure C4 submitted to quantum mechanical calculation within the 
Density Functional Theory (DFT) 4,5 to obtain the ground state energy and related properties was 
found to be another formulation of diamond, and the allotrope is qualified with dia topology (Table 
1) 6. Using bct C4 as a template, we devised novel simple allotropes, such as the latest one hybrid 
(sp3sp2) C6 with tfa topology, which we called neoglitter (cf. 7 and the works cited therein).


---

Description:
Exhibits ultrahardness and high phonon optical mode frequencies of 40 THz.

Text:
Within a similar approach, we propose herein two novel carbon allotropes, tetragonal C9 and C12, 
both characterized by sp3 carbon in original architectures comprising corner and edge sharing 
tetrahedra. The purpose of this paper is to present their crystal structures and to demonstrate 
ultrahardness, while also presenting high phonon optical mode frequencies of   40 THz like in 
diamond and C4, a large electronic band gap, and a temperature evolution of the heat capacity close 
to that of diamond.
