Description:
A carotenoid involved in the light-harvesting process of diatoms.

Text:
Diatoms are marine algae that produce about 4050 of the marine biomass with a 2025
contribution to the global primary production via photosynthesis for the entire food web
on earth. They also contribute to the atmospheric carbon fixation13. Like higher plants,
the lightharvesting (LH) process within diatoms is performed by proteinpigment complexes
embedded within thylakoid membranes. The major LH complex of the photosystem II (PSII)
of diatoms is a fucoxanthin and chlorophyll binding protein (FCP) containing fucoxanthin
carotenoids in the place of the xanthophylls present in higher plants4. Although the LH
complexes of higher plants and diatoms belong to similar protein classes with comparable
sequences, their absorption differs substantially due to the presence of different pigment
types5.


---

Description:
Carotenoids that enable the absorption of sunlight in the bluegreen region for photosynthesis in marine environments.

Text:
The large amount of fucoxanthin carotenoids contained in the FCP complexes en
ables the absorption of sunlight in the bluegreen region, which allows diatoms to perform
photosynthesis in a marine environment6. Furthermore, the presence of chlorophyllc (Chlc)
molecules in the diatom FCP complexes, as opposed to the Chlb present in higher plants,
adds towards this goal. The first crystallographic structure of an FCP complex belongs to the diatom Phaeodacty
lum tricornutum and shows a dimeric unit7 whereas later studies on the organism Chaetoceros
gracilis found different tetrameric as well as monomeric units near the PSII core of those
diatoms8,9. Although the polypeptide structures of these FCP complexes are quite similar,
they differ in the chlorophyll (Chl) and carotenoid content.


---

Description:
A pigment found in the monomeric FCP unit from P. tricornutum.

Text:
The monomeric FCP unit from
P. tricornutum contains nine chlorophylls (seven Chla and two Chlc), seven fucoxanthin
(Fx) and one diadinoxanthin (Ddx) molecule. In the case of the diatom C. gracilis, the
PSII core is surrounded by two homotetramers and three dissimilar FCP monomers. The
2
