Description:
A solvent used in the preparation of lipid-based nanoparticles through ethanol injection.

Text:
The recent progress in ribonucleic acid (RNA) therapy is attracting attention in the fields of 
personalized nanomedicine and intractable and infectious disease treatments.13 RNA is unstable 
and should be delivered to target tissues without RNase degradation, and thus, RNA delivery 
systems are indispensable in ensuring therapeutic effects. Lipidbased nanoparticles, such as lipid 
nanoparticles (LNPs) and liposomes, are promising carriers in RNA delivery to target organs.4 In 
2020, Moderna and PfizerBioNTech COVID19 vaccines, which encapsulate messenger RNAs 
(mRNAs) within LNPs, were approved worldwide and could protect against severe COVID19.5, 6 
Generally, lipidbased nanoparticles, including LNPs and liposomes, are prepared using 
various methods, including film hydration, ethanol injection, and detergent removal.7 After particle 
preparation, the sizes of the nanoparticles are tuned via sonication or extrusion.


---

Description:
Critical in nanoparticle formation affecting size, structural change, and drug loading.

Text:
Recently, 
microfluidicbased ethanol injection has been widely used in producing sizecontrolled 
nanoparticles without complicated sizetuning processes.815 In this method, aqueous and lipid
containing ethanol solutions are introduced into a microfluidic device, and the ethanol is then 
continuously diluted with the aqueous solution within the device. Lipid molecules aggregate upon 
ethanol dilution, followed by nanoparticle formation, and thus, ethanol is critical in nanoparticle 
formation in terms of nanoparticle size, structural change, and drug loading. However, the effects 
of timedependent changes in ethanol concentration on lipidbased nanoparticles remain unclear 
owing to the lack of in situ measurement methods. In microfluidicbased liposome preparation, ethanol affects liposome size and the structural 
changes during liposome formation and dialysis.


---

Description:
A solvent used in the preparation of liposome suspensions in microfluidic devices.

Text:
We reported the effects of the flow conditions 
and microchannel structure on the liposome size.1517 Generally, large liposomes form at a slow 
ethanol dilution rate, whereas small liposomes form at a rapid ethanol dilution rate. Additionally, 
the liposome suspension prepared using the microfluidic device contains ethanol, and residual
