Description:
Mimics nitric oxide behaviour as a signalling molecule, causing biofilm dispersion and lethal to bacterial cells in high doses.

Text:
. Nitric oxide (NO) plays an important role in several 
biological processes, from biofilm inhibition1 to 
controlling inflammation2 and cancer treatment3. However, NO is intrinsically unstable, and interest in 
stable radicals with analogous behaviour, such as (2,2,6,6
tetramethylpiperidin1yl)oxyl (TEMPO) has rapidly 
grown. The TEMPO molecule, as shown in Figure 1a, 
has been reported as effective in antibiofouling 
applications49, with its potential for use in chronic 
wound treatment also highlighted9. In high doses, 
TEMPO is lethal to bacterial cells and biofilms8. In low 
doses, it enters the cell5,6 and mimics nitric oxide 
behaviour as a signalling molecule, including, for 
instance, causing P. aeruginosa biofilm dispersion by 
reverting sessile cells to a planktonic state through the 
overstimulation of twitching motility5.


---

Description:
Used as an antibiofouling agent with the capability to coat surfaces and preserve the nitroxide moiety.

Text:
To effectively use TEMPO as an antibiofouling agent, 
the capability to coat the surface of a wide range of 
materials and preserve the nitroxide moiety is required. Recently, plasma polymerisation has been shown to fulfil 
these requirements4,9,10. Plasma polymerisation is a one
step, solventfree, and energyefficient process11 to coat 
surfaces with thin, functional films of organic molecules 
without altering the substrate material bulk properties. As 
a result, it is exceptionally versatile across a wide range of 
industrial applications such as antifouling9,12, biomolecule 
immobilisation1315, water purification1618, electronics19, 
and green energy20,21. Although plasma polymerisation is 
considered a mature technology, many fundamental 
questions remain around the initial growth stages and the 
uniformity and ordering within the polymer layers.


---

Description:
Exhibits distinct morphology and chemistry in thin films up to 30 nm, influenced by surface properties and significant dipole-dipole interactions.

Text:
TEMPO thin films 
are prepared by plasma polymerisation on substrates with 
significantly differing chemistries and atomic roughness. We demonstrate, through highresolution atomic force 
microscopy 
(AFM) 
and 
Xray 
photoelectron 
spectroscopy (XPS), that TEMPO films are highly 
surfacedependent up to 30 nm, exhibiting distinct 
morphology and chemistry. Beyond 30 nm, the films 
converge to a flat, uniform structure, and are therefore 
considered surfaceagnostic. Through a postannealing 
process, we show that it is possible to grow stable single 
layer TEMPO coatings with an ordered arrangement on 
HOPG substrates. Density functional theory (DFT) 
provides important insights into the moleculemolecule 
and surfacemolecule interactions, revealing an anti
parallel arrangement caused by significant dipoledipole 
interactions between TEMPO molecules.


---

Description:
Molecules whose orientation and intermolecular packing within plasma polymer films depend on the surface.

Text:
Moreover, the orientation and 
intermolecular packing of TEMPO molecules within 
plasma polymer films are expected to depend on the 
surface, so an understanding of growth and its impact on 
topography (Figure 1be), surface area, and chemistry are 
essential. TEMPO growth was investigated using SiO2, HOPG, 
and Au(111) as substrate materials. SiO2 substrates are 
frequently used to characterise plasma polymerisation 
deposition and are therefore used as a reference 
substrate. In comparison, Au(111) and HOPG are well
studied atomically flat materials known to promote good 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023vzz40 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000340311519 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
