Description:
Molecules that exhibit rotational excitation when scattered from Au(111) surfaces.

Text:
Recent series of quantum state
resolved REMPI experiments have shown high propensity
to excite aaxis in collisions of formaldehyde with Au(111)
surface.14,15 They found that direct scattered formaldehyde
molecules (low scattering angles, incident energy greater than
0.33 eV) spend less time on the surface (as compared to high
scattering angles) and follow a nonMaxwellian distribution
in terms of rotational states. Their trajectory simulations with
Ausurface represented by a harmonic oscillator, formalde
hyde as a rigid rotor and hardsphere and LennardJones in
teraction between formaldehyde and Au, overestimated the
average rotational excitation compared to the experiments.


---

Description:
Studied for its energy transfer processes in nonreactive inelastic collisions with Au(111) surface.

Text:
In
the study reported here, we used classical dynamics simula
tion to investigate energy transfer in the nonreactive inelas
tic collisions of formaldehyde with Au(111) surface and un
derstand the mechanisms underlying the energy transfer pro
cesses. We modelled the system using SuttonChen poten
tial for Au(111) surface, the sixdimensional (6D) potential
energy surface for formaldehyde developed by Bowman and
coworkers,16 and the two body LennardJones potential to de
ne the gassurface interaction. Our results are in good agree
ment with the experiments, both in terms of rotational energy
distribution, as well as trapping probabilities, and explain the
mechanism of the energy transfer. II. COMPUTATIONAL DETAILS
A. Potential Energy Surface
The inelastic scattering of formaldehyde on the gold surface
was studied using the allatom classical trajectory simulations.


---

Description:
A component in the interaction potential with the gold surface.

Text:
The potential energy of the system is written as
V  Vgold Vform Vint
(1)
where Vgold, Vform, and Vint represent the potential energies
of the gold surface, formaldehyde, and the interaction be
tween gold surface and formaldehyde respectively. We used a
rectangularshaped hcp lattice of Au(111) surface which con
sisted of three layers of gold atoms, with a total (ng) of 1045
atoms. The manybody semiempirical SuttonChen (SC) in
teraction potential17 was used to represent the bulk of gold
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023bm5qcv2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000255509694 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
