Description:
Participates in hydrogen oxidation (HOR) and reduction (HRR) reactions.

Text:
Catalysis through Nickel designed composite materials has grown exponentially for considerable applications in
the past few decades. As it has a strong affinity for cobalt, copper, and many other transition metals. Thus,
present to it real sophisticated advantages in various technological fields. Research for discovering highly active,
selective and stable catalysts has been carefully regarded for material engineering for many energy fields and
other applications using both simulation and experimental methods 1,5. for exemple, these reactions, oxygen
reduction (ORR), oxygen evolution (OER) and both Hydrogen oxidation (HOR)reduction (HRR) so well
studied in recent years through diverse form of materials as fully shown in this research articles 6,8.


---

Description:
A clean fuel produced through water electrolysis.

Text:
In order to avoid or limit
the utilization of fossil fuels, recently, many researchers have proposed more strategies to produce clean fuels
such as hydrogen (H2), Ammonia (NH3), hydrous hydrazine, Metalion batteries from diverse sources using
nanosized materials. In this ways, more recently, Naseeb, W et al 22 have engineered RuCoO heterostructures
nanoparticles anchored over dual heteroatom (N,S) codoped graphene nanosheets named as (RuCoOSNG)
for high catalytic hydrogen production from water electrolysis by direct hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). In
1.0 M KOH, RuCoOSNG displayed 90 mV and 10 mA as overpotential and current density under HER
process which was comparable to the stateoftheart (PtC (60 mV)) a long with stability.


---

Description:
Generated via the catalytic decomposition of hydrous hydrazine.

Text:
Also, Singh,S et al
23 showed the generation of hydrogen via the catalytic decomposition of hydrous hydrazine (H2NNH2 H2O)
over a bimetallic NickelIridium (NixIr1xB) catalysts. As resulted from the experimental studies, Ni0.95Ir0.05B
and Ni0.90Ir0.10B exhibited the highest selectivity for hydrogen release from hydrous hydrazine. Which was close
to 100 of hydrogen selectivity from H2NNH2 H2O decomposition. Moreover, Both (Ni1xPtx) and (Ni1xPdx)
have been considered as a good catalyst materials for the degradation of hydrous hydrazine as fully described in
24,25. Suitable selectivity (close to 100) was achieved with Pt content as low as 7 mol  and superior to
80 hydrogen selectivity with 40 of Palladium loading respectively.


---

Description:
Produced with high selectivity in the presence of NiFe alloy in sodium hydroxide.

Text:
These NiM (M  noble metals) revealed
to be excellent hydrazine conversion catalysts for H2 release, but their cost and Poisoning by harmful spices
hindered their application. This is why the search of new routes are on the way of scientific research fields. So,
in this sense, Noblemetalfree bimetallic nanoparticles especially NiFe alloy catalysts have displayed excellent
catalytic feature for complete degradation of hydrous hydrazine, the NiFe alloy with equimolar composition
exhibited the highest selectivity (100) of hydrogen production in 0.5 M of sodium hydroxide at 343 K as
reported by the above Author 26. A minireview paper has been established by Rai,R et al 27 which
demonstrated the alternative use of the activated bimetallic nanostructures catalysts for specific CC coupling
reactions.
