Description:
An important neurotransmitter in the brain associated with various disorders.

Text:
Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter in the brain and dysregulation of serotonin 
levels has been associated with various disorders, including depression14 and autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD)5, 6. Serotonin itself has been hypothesized to not cross the blood 
brain barrier79. There is growing evidence that suggests the gut microbiome communicates 
with the brain in a bidirectional manner through the vagal nerve and through biomarkers that 
can cross the blood brain barrier (BBB). One of these biomarkers that can cross is the amino 
acid tryptophan (Trp), the precursor to serotonin. Trp is one of the 20 naturally occurring amino acids that is essential for protein 
synthesis and plays a fundamental role in nutrition and health10. Once ingested, Trp is 
distributed throughout the body via the circulatory system11.


---

Description:
A brain neurotransmitter involved in mood regulation.

Text:
It is also the precursor to several 
brain neurotransmitters (i.e. serotonin, melatonin) 9, 10 and other biomarkers that participate in 
the crosstalk in the gutbrain axis (i.e. kynurenine, vitamin B6)12, 13. As a result, it has been 
hypothesized that Trp itself plays crucial roles in the brain, the gut, and the various disorders 
that involve the gutbrain axis, including depression1417 and autism spectrum disorder1821. For 
example, studies22, 23 found that a Trprich diet has been negatively correlated with depression 
and positively linked to social cognition. Likewise, a Trpdeficient diet resulted in decreased 
plasma Trp and brain serotonin levels and correlated with poor learning ability24 and 
depressivelike behavior25. Likewise, an increase in Trp breakdown has been observed in 
patients with depression17.


---

Description:
A neurotransmitter involved in the regulation of mood and behavior.

Text:
Relating to ASD, studies have found that transplantation of gut 
microbiome from donors with ASD into germfree mice resulted in ASDlike behaviors and 
altered Trp and serotonin metabolism in these mice20. Moreover, a doubleblind study that 
induced acute Trp depletion in patients with ASD observed a normalization of abnormal fronto
cerebellar activity to levels similar to those of controls26. These studies highlight the 
importance of Trp in these disorders. Humans obtain most of necessary Trp from diet, but Candida, Streptococcus, 
Eschirichia, Enterococus, and other microorganisms in the gut microbiome express Trp 
synthase that catalyzes the Trp biosynthesis from serine and indole3glycerolphosphate27.


---

Description:
A neurotransmitter involved in the regulation of mood and behavior.

Text:
The gut microbiome also plays a major role in regulating the available amount of circulating 
Trp by modulating enzymes in various Trp metabolism pathways serotonin, kynurenine, and 
indole27. Rats administered Bifidobacterium infantis probiotics had reduced brain 5
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2022tfdn8v2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000269023978 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
