Description:
A stronger anticoagulant with a lethal dosage LD50 at 1.1 mg/kg.

Text:
Worldwide rodenticide resistance among rat populations (Rattus, sp) 
have been increasingly detected, most probably due to the intensive use of 
anticoagulants 1, 2 . For instance, resistance to warfarin (lethal dosage LD50 at 58 
mgKg) or coumatetralyl (16.5 mgKg), and both resistance and baitdeath 
association learning when using stronger difenacoum (1.8 mgKg), bromadiolone 
(1.1 mgKg), difethialone (0.56 mgKg), flocoumafen (0.46 mgKg) or brodifacoum 
(0.26 mgKg)3, 4 anticoagulants, have been reported. Together with the 
anticoagulantderived toxic residues found on several offtarget biological species 
1, 3, 57, which may even include humans, genetic resistances constitute one of the 
main actual concerns to the use of actual rodenticide anticoagulants. Future 
anticoagulant rodenticides that could maximize ontarget rat lethality while 
minimizing offtarget ecological impacts would be convenient 8 .


---

Description:
Shares a hydroxycoumarin head with brodifacoum and other related compounds.

Text:
The here named evolutionary docking belongs to selfsupervised 
generation methodologies that bypass the screening of large chemical data banks 
to detect new protein ligands. In the present particular case, evolutionary docking 
was used to augment the repertoire of specific ligands by targeting a defined 
dockingcavity. Specificity was theoretically increased by adding low molecular 
weight and hydrophobic criteria aiming to reduce offtarget effects. The 
brodifacoum chemotype was selected as the initial parent molecule from which 
randomly generate multiple children derivatives, because is among the most potent 
rodenticides due to its highly hydrophobic tail (LogP  8.0, penetrating the 
VKORC1 binding central cavity). Additionally, the brodifacoum chemotype shares 
hydroxycoumarin heads similarly common to warfarine, coumatetralyl, 
bromadiolone, difenacoum, difethialone, and flocoumafen.
