Description:
Used to adjust pH in consumer care formulations, including shampoo.

Text:
pH adjustment is important across several product development processes, including in the 
formulations, pharmaceutical manufacturing, and the food and beverage industries (17). The 
pH can affect the functionality, performance, and safety of the product. Our study focuses on 
the industrially motivated problem statement to titrate a wide range of shampoolike 
formulations. Manufacturers typically adjust shampoo to between pH 5.5  7 to prevent scalp 
irritation (from lower pHs) and are nonalkaline to prevent cuticle damage and frizzy hair (3, 
4). In principle, the pH can be lowered with any acid, however, industrially many consumer 
care formulations, including shampoo, are adjusted with citric acid (810). Citric acid 
(H3C6H5O7) is preferred as it can contribute chelating effects and buffering properties to 
cosmetics and personal care products (8).


---

Description:
A weak, polyprotic acid with a pH-dependent deprotonation state.

Text:
This is because it is a weak, polyprotic acid; however, 
it is exactly these properties which simultaneously make it a challenging titrant to work with. Unlike strong acids, citric acids deprotonation state (where pH is defined as the negative log 
decade of the solutions proton, i.e., H3O, concentration) is pHdependent. Therefore, we 
cannot straightforwardly determine how much citric acid needs to be added to lower the pH 
appropriately. While the HendersonHasselbach equation can be used for singlebuffered 
systems, there is no suitable model for polyprotic buffer systems (11, 12). Additionally, the 
titration process should be agnostic to the products chemistry.


---

Description:
Used to form a buffer resistant to pH change when combined with a base.

Text:
Methods which rely on knowing 
the acid or base hydrolysis constants (KaKb) for the product being titrated are not general 
enough for industrial applications, where several different complex mixtures are often adjusted 
and screened. Only the titrants chemical properties are well defined. Furthermore, if the target 
pH is overshot and a correction needs to be applied (e.g., the pH adjustment begins by adding 
citric acid and later requires a base to be added), then we have a recipe to form a buffer 
resistant to pH change, which is undesirable.
