Description:
An anilinederived sulfonamide and one of the first synthesized antibacterial drugs in the start of the 20th century.

Text:
Sulfanilamide is an anilinederived sulfonamide and one of the first synthesized
antibacterial drugs in the start of the 20th century. A limitation to antibacterial small
molecule drugs is the rapid tendency for bacteria to develop antibacterial resistance,
lending to an arms race between advances in novel drug production and evolution
driving survival of the fittest by selecting for antibioticresistant genes. Azo dyes
quickly became a desirable starting material to turn to sulfa drugs.


---

Description:
Despite its simple structure, its conventional synthesis involves acutely toxic and hazardous reagents.

Text:
One notable
example is Prontosil which was discovered to have the same active pharmacophore as
sulfanilamide.1 The breakthrough that valuable drugs could be synthesized from
seemingly tangential precursors in the early 1900s led to a proliferation of sulfa drugs
and revolutionized the age of chemotherapeutics.2, 3
Despite the simplicity of the structure of sulfanilamide, the reagents in the conventional
synthesis protocol are often acutely toxic and hazardous according to modern safety
standards. Namely, sulfonation requires the generation of SO2 gas in situ, which
necessitates a great deal of patience in allowing dissolved SO2 to react with the aniline
substrate along with the risk of extreme heat generation and toxic gas evolution. Sulfonation can be conveniently performed with chlorosulfonic acid, but the reagent is
violently reactive with water.


---

Description:
A compound synthesized using a method involving a Willis reagent and SO2 addition.

Text:
In this experiment, a different synthetic angle was
explored to create sulfanilamide which would be markedly more efficient and safe. This
method involves a Willis reagent which performs SO2 addition through a
O(tertButyl)Nsulfinylhydroxylamine (tBuONSO) intermediate that houses a relatively
stable aqueous thionyl intermediate.4 This eliminates the need to rely on SO2 gas
dissolved in water to nucleophilically attack the substrate, but directly substitutes the
thionyl group onto O(tertbutyl)hydroxylamine hydrochloride to form the activate
sulfonation reagent tBuONSO. The next step utilizes a grignard reagent
(4Bis(trimethylsilyl)aminophenylmagnesium), which overall achieves the same effect
as a sulfonation. This further eliminates the need to protect the aniline with an
acetamide. Overall, this approach is drastically different from the standard reaction flow
to synthesize sulfanilamide1.
