Description:
Carbene precursors known for their unique electronic and structural properties.

Text:
Diazo compounds (i.e., (R1)(R2)CN2 where R1 and R2
indicate functional groups) are wellknown carbene (i.e.,
(R1)(R2)C) precursors that have garnered significant at
tention in organic synthesis because of their unique elec
tronic and structural properties 110. The generated
carbenes from diazo are highly reactive intermediates
that participate in a variety of chemical processes, includ
ing XH insertion (where X  C, O, N, S) 1118, cyclo
propanation 1924, and tandem crosscoupling 2528. The N2 gas is released to the atmosphere from diazo to
carbene transformation (Scheme 1). Thus, if the activa
tion energy barrier for breaking the carbonnitrogen bond
in a diazo compound is crossed, the reaction becomes ir
reversible. In other words, regardless of whether the reac
tion is thermodynamically exothermic or endothermic, it
is governed by kinetics.


---

Description:
A group involved in the release of N2 from diazo compounds in the presence of a catalyst.

Text:
For instance, Ariafard et al.31 ex
plored the R2 substitution impact, whereas the R1 site
is decorated by a few phenyl derivatives. In this case,
the activation barriers ranged from 26.7 to 35.1 kcalmol. Clearly, the direct attachment of electronwithdrawing or
electrondonating functional groups to the carbon carry
ing the diazo group, i.e. R1 site, will result in a more
pronounced electronic effect and, subsequently, can ex
ert a greater influence on the stability of the transition
structure. Moreover, a substantial portion of the stud
ies is devoted to the mechanism underlying the release of
N2 from diazo compounds in the presence of a catalyst,
particularly a metal complex catalyst 33, 3741.


---

Description:
Compounds examined for optimizing N2 gas release through DFT and machine learning approaches.

Text:
Taken
together, the community still needs a thorough exami
nation of a larger range of diazo compounds to pave the
way for a more effective N2 gas release process. The abovesimplified description prompted us to con
duct a DFTbased investigation, examining a database
of diazo compounds consisting of 4 common backbones
decorated with 14 functional groups (Scheme 2). Such a
database allows us to discover leading features and opti
mize them in order to design an efficient diazo compound
for N2 release. To this end, we also used a machine learn
ing (ML) approach to analyze DFT results and identify
relevant chemical descriptors. The accuracy of ML has
now reached a level comparable to that of DFT 42.


---

Description:
Compounds whose reactivity and stability provide information on N2 gas release.

Text:
It is
important to note that DFT is an accurate approxima
tion, but scales with system size, whereas ML is fast but
limited by database size and reliability. By combining
these two approaches, we can uncover previously unseen
correlations and gain a deeper understanding of chemical
reactions. We aim to address the following questions i) How
does the structural modification affect the kinetics of the
N2 gas release? It provides us with information on both
the reactivity and stability of the diazo compounds. ii)
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023h67fz ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000208631136 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
