Description:
Used with Mn in quaternary and quinary oxides to enhance corrosion resistance.

Text:
of nearsurface oxygen vacancies22,23 due to 
heterogeneity in the oxidation state of the 3 or 4 cation 
elements in the rutile phase. Conclusions 
The electrocatalysis community has had an awakening 
regarding the fundamental science challenges that underlie 
operational durability, which is particularly important in non
preciousmetal acid OER catalysis.24 The measurement of 
equilibrated dissolved metals concentration may serve as an 
important indicator of longterm durability,13 and while there 
have 
been 
initial 
demonstrations 
of 
timeresolved 
measurements via online detection,25,26 such measurements 
remain prohibitively expensive for high throughput exploration 
of high dimensional composition spaces. The present work 
focuses on decreasing the concentration of elements most 
prone to corrosion by exploring quaternary and quinary oxides 
in which Mn is mixed with various combinations of Sb, Sn, and 
Ti.


---

Description:
Resists corrosion in a catalyst motif.

Text:
XRD analysis confirms that a sitesubstituted rutile phase can 
be synthesized over a broad range of compositions in the Mn
SbSnTiO composition space. The results demonstrate a 
catalyst motif wherein activity is realized at low concentration 
of the presumed catalytic element (Mn) via integration with 
multiple elements that resist corrosion (Sn, Ti, Sb). Author Contributions 
L.Z. synthesized 
all 
catalysts, 
performed 
materials 
characterization experiments, aggregated all data, and 
developed data visualization schemes that produced the 
primary 
data 
figures. A.S. 
performed 
electrochemical 
experiments. M.C. performed CrystalShift XRD analysis under 
supervisions of M.O.T. and R.B.vD.. J.M.G. designed the 
experimental campaign, supervised research, and was the 
primary author of the communication with contributions from 
all authors. Conflicts of interest 
J.M.G. is a consultant for companies that aim to accelerate 
catalyst discovery.
