Description:
A cost-effective metal considered for use in catalysis and environmental technologies.

Text:
The use of costeffective metals such as transition cobalt,
zinc, nickel, copper, molybdenum hybrid materials, and so fourth have been extensively considered 1517 in
both catalysis and environmental technologies. Porous materials, such as intelligent as zeolite materials recently
are fully regarded as powerfully active catalysts in a wide range of catalysis technologies. Indeed, as explained in
Zhangas work 18, It covering a deep range of pore sizes starting from micropores (D  2 nm), mesopores (2
 D  50 nm) to macropores ( D  50 nm), so zeolite materials are versatile and essential in applications such as
gas separators, ion exchangers technology, catalysts, for energy holding, in sensor, and beyond. Also, the use of
zeolites on multicomponent reactions is introduced in Limas work 19.


---

Description:
Used in catalysts for the decomposition of NH3.

Text:
Furthermore, in 2019, a review discussed on the use of rare earth elements
with transition metalbased materials for ecatalysts design, synthesis, and applications were exhaustively
analyzed in Gaos research work 22. It shows that these rare earth metals could be used for materials
engineering for hightech applications as hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), methanol oxidation reaction
(MOR), oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR). Many benefits and challenges
of hybrid materials made via the use of rare earth elements are considered in the study. An alumina (Al2O3)
supported nickel catalysts (NiAl2O3) modified by rare earth elements was demonstrated as a highly active
catalyst for the decomposition of NH3 as described in Okuras paper 23.


---

Description:
Dispersion is improved by lanthanum among rare earth elements.

Text:
Analysis results displays that the
Lanthanum (La) modified catalysts reaches the highest ammonia conversion. To boost the catalytic performance
of this (La)modified NiAl2O3 catalyst a pretreatment step was required. Hence, 400 C and 600 C as
calcination, and reduction temperature respectively shows the highest NH3 conversion as high as 94 at 550 C.
Moreover, it is notified from Lis work 24 that lanthanum (La) is the best choice for improving the nickel
dispersion and the ratio of metallic to acid functions among rare earth elements. Indeed, due to this fact, high
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023c5lvb ORCID httpsorcid.org0009000421328571 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
