Description:
Tools that face limitations in binary photoswitching and operation with red-NIR light.

Text:
Typically, a small 
molecule photoswitch is extended from or incorporated into a drug 
pharmacophore, such that light can spatiotemporally pattern its 
bioactivity by photoisomerising it.2 Azobenzenes are the dominant 
photoswitch class, and besides their many uses in photoresponsive 
materials, they are driving the frontiers of photopharmacology from 
cellular applications in neuroscience, cytoskeleton, and signaling, to 
therapeutic clinical trials in vivo.37 Nevertheless, two major limits on 
the performance of azobenzene tools remain (1) populationlevel 
photoswitching is not binary (allEallZ) but is incomplete, 
especially in the ZE direction (that also is less photonefficient); 
(2) no broadly applicable strategy to operate azobenzenes with well
penetrating redNIR light is known (typically, () are significant 
only below 530 nm).


---

Description:
A compound used in materials sciences photoredox catalysis to control isomer ratios with high switching completion and efficient red-NIR response.

Text:
The last decade has witnessed major efforts to 
overcome these limits, primarily through tetraorthosubstitutions 
and cyclic azobenzenes.810 However, both approaches suffer from 
low molar extinction coefficients in the bettertissuepenetrating red 
spectral region, resulting in slow and inefficient photoswitching; true 
NIR response is lacking; and both methods require redesigning the 
photoswitch, which restricts their scope and can result in dramatic 
losses of potency (for further background, see Supporting Note 1). Two alternative routes to photocontrol azobenzene isomer ratios, 
with high switching completion and efficient redNIR response, 
recently emerged in materials sciences photoredox catalysis1114, 
which we address in this work, and triplet energy transfer11,1518, 
which we address in a parallel manuscript19.


---

Description:
Undergoes ZE isomerisation using triplet photoredox catalysts via transient photooxidation to the radical cation or photoreduction to the radical anion.

Text:
Hecht showed excellent 
azobenzene ZE isomerisation using triplet photoredox catalysts, 
via transient photooxidation to the radical cation11 (electronrich 
azobenzenes; e.g. AOMB, Fig 1ab) or photoreduction to the 
radical anion12,13 (if electronpoor). This arises as the radicals 
isomerise to their thermodynamically preferred E isomer ca. 1013 
times faster than do the neutral forms, so a 100E population 
accumulates after backelectron transfer. However, these systems 
are not applicable to biology. Among the many challenges, (i) with 
one exception,13 they are intermolecular concepts, so are unlikely to 
work at M levels needed for biocompatible reagents; (ii) as triplet 
systems, they require O2 exclusion to work efficiently, and with O2 
they also produce reactive species that photobleach the catalyst and 
are too toxic for use in biology (discussed in Supporting Note 1).
