Description:
A compound used in ring opening reactions to synthesize bbranched amino acids.

Text:
Synthetic strategies towards bbranched amino acids 
A breakthrough was reached upon recognition that the bbranched 
amino acid motifs for both 3 and 4 could, in principle, be derived 
from aziridine ring openings (Figure 1). While addition to aziridines 
has previously been demonstrated as a useful strategy for the 
synthesis of bbranched amino acids,21 very few examples exist for 
comparable additions to acarbonyl, baryl aziridines as was 
necessitated in the case of 2. In general, addition to aziridines 
requires the use of electronwithdrawing Nactivators (such as tosyl 
or nosyl protecting groups), which could potentially introduce 
further synthetic issues.


---

Description:
Chiral aziridine used to forge the NC39 bond with histidine.

Text:
For instance, cleavage of Ntosyl is 
incompatible with use of an aryl bromide,2223 preliminary 
experiments indicated difficulties in controlling the reactivity for N
nosyl,24 and rearrangement is a known issue for carbamatebased 
protecting groups.2526 For these reasons, a more efficient approach 
was developed based on direct addition into freeNH aziridines. The 
bbranched motif of 4 could thus be traced back to addition of 
histidine into chiral aziridine 9 to forge the NC39 bond of 2. To 
mitigate the risk of imidazole eliminating from tyrosine to form the 
corresponding paraquinone methide (QM) (Figure 1, highlighted 
in red), bromide was chosen as a stable surrogate for hydroxyl group 
of the natural tyrosine with the intention to introduce the requisite 
phenol moiety at a late stage.


---

Description:
A compound used in the synthesis of the western fragment with 2methyl furan.

Text:
The synthesis of the western fragment 
3 branched tryptophanasparagine motif (Figure 1, highlighted in 
green) was envisioned in the same fashion by addition of 2methyl 
furan into the corresponding aziridine 7. In this case, furan acts as 
an epimerizationproof synthetic precursor to the primary 
asparagine amide, to be unveiled towards the end of the synthesis. With a strategy in hand to address the challenge of synthesizing the 
bbranched amino acids 6 and 7, our attention next turned to 
construction of the two macrocycles and final assembly of 2. The synthesis of 2 is outlined in Scheme 1.


---

Description:
A compound used in stereo and regio selective opening reactions under acidic conditions.

Text:
To construct the eastern 
fragment 4, enantioenriched 9 (937 er) was prepared in good yield 
on multigramscale in two steps, leveraging the multicomponent 
asymmetric aziridination developed by Wulff group (see SI for 
experimental detail).27 With ample quantities of free aziridine 9 in 
hand, a stereo and regio selective aziridine opening reaction was 
conducted using histidine derivative 11 as a nucleophile under 
acidic conditions. This reaction was subjected to extensive 
optimization (see Scheme 1 Table 1 and SI for further detail) and 
showed a pronounced solvent dependence, wherein the use of 
trifluoroethanol (TFE) was found to be critical.


---

Description:
A compound involved in ring opening reactions and prone to dimer formation due to nucleophilic attack.

Text:
The role of TFE in 
this reaction may be rationalized by a unique combination of high 
polarity, low nucleophilicity, and the ability to form Hbonding 
adducts with donor functionalities, aiding in the ring opening 
reaction of the aziridine.2829 The major side reaction pathway under 
optimized conditions was identified as dimer formation by 
competing nucleophilic attack of the aziridine. The ratio between 
the desired product and dimer is critically influenced by the 
protonation equilibrium of the aziridine and nucleophile (see SI for 
a comparison of nucleophiles with varying pKa). The direct reaction 
between His 10 and aziridine 9 was hampered by extensive dimer 
formation due to an insufficient pKa difference.


---

Description:
Formed through addition reactions and can be synthesized with high yield.

Text:
In comparison, 
utilization of less basic 5BrHis 11 led to a subtle shift in 
protonation equilibrium resulting in reduced dimer formation to 
give the desired aziridine addition in 4165 yield depending upon 
the equivalents of His 11 utilized. Subsequent reductive cleavage of 
the bromide under acidic conditions using ZnAcOH proceeded 
with excellent selectivity for the bromoimidazole in nearly 
quantitative yield and enabled access to the key bbranched amino 
acid coupled product 8. Subsequent steps included amide coupling 
with a protected serine residue to furnish cyclization precursor 12, 
which was subjected to TBAF, resulting in simultaneous Fmoc and 
(trimethylsilyl)ethyl (TSE) deprotection.


---

Description:
A compound used to forge tryptophan-asparagine linkages and as a substrate for nucleophilic reactions.

Text:
After screening a variety 
of activation reagents, the combination of PyAOP with HOAt was 
found to be the most effective conditions under which to forge the 
macrocycle to yield 4 in 54 yield over two steps. The aziridinebased strategy outlined above could be leveraged 
again to forge the tryptophanasparagine linkage. Thus, western 
fragment 3 was prepared by employing 2methyl furan as a 
nucleophile onto aziridine 7. The use of 2methylfuran as a masked 
primary amide provided several advantages, notably avoiding 
undesired side reactions such as epimerization of the bcarbon and 
imide formation during carboxylic acid activation.
