Description:
Easily stored in aqueous form and used as a fuel in direct methanol fuel cells (DMFC).

Text:
The directmethanol fuel cell (DMFC) using a polymer electroyte membrane (PEM) has 
significant potential as a portable power source,16 as a result of (i) simple design (Figure 1); 
(ii) high efficiency; (iii) low emissions to the environment; (iv) easy storage of aqueous 
methanol; (v) low operating temperatures; (vi) no need for a fuel vaporiser or reformer; and 
(vii) no membranehumidification or thermal management requirements. However, the large
scale introduction of DMFC is challenged by a number of issues, notably (i) high methanol 

 Current Address Redwave Labs Ltd., Harwell Innovation Centre, Building 173, Curie Avenue, Harwell, 
OX11 0QG, UK. httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv202313r7h ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000237254085 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv.


---

Description:
A fuel that can increase power density but causes excessive swelling of membranes.

Text:
License CC BYNC 4.0

3 
permeability of industrystandard fluorocarbon membranes such as Nafion 115, leading to 
high methanol crossover, and (ii) the need for a more efficient catalyst for oxygen reduction. The loss of fuel cell performance due to slow O2 reduction kinetics can be minimised to a 
certain extent by reducing the thickness of the membrane to lower its ionic resistance, but this 
also increases methanol crossover. Higher concentrations of methanol fuel can increase power 
density and reduce fuel volume, but in general a high concentration of methanol in the aqueous 
feed leads to excessive swelling of the membrane. Furthermore, unoxidised methanol 
concentrates at the anode and will again cross over to the cathode.


---

Description:
Undergoes parasitic oxidation to CO2 and H2 at the cathode in DMFCs.

Text:
Methanol crossover can 
poison the cathode catalyst, leading to increased cellheating, lower oxygen activity, reduced 
cell voltage and power density, and loss of DMFC efficiency as a result of parasitic oxidation 
of methanol to CO2 and H2, at the cathode.710 Present DMFC technology thus uses a dilute 
aqueous methanol feed, at 1M to 3M concentration, to limit the extent of methanol crossover.
