Description:
An anion of interest in chloride ion batteries.

Text:
The interaction of halides with metal anodes is of gen
eral interest in electrochemistry, as halides are typical
anions present in electrolytes 13. Understanding the
interaction between adsorbates and metal surfaces is es
sential for designing efficient electrode materials for en
ergy storage and conversion applications 4. Recently
the interaction of chloride with lithium and magnesium
electrodes has become of interest in the context of chlo
ride ion batteries (CIBs) 57 in which lithium and mag
nesium can be used as the anode material 8.


---

Description:
An anion used in batteries as an alternative to lithium ion batteries, based on more abundant materials.

Text:
Batteries
based on anions such as chloride represent an alternative
to the widely used Liion batteries as they are typically
based on more abundant materials and also exhibit the
oretical energy densities which can be higher than those
of current lithium ion batteries 9, 10. Thus they con
tribute to more sustainable and environmentally friendly
energy storage technologies. Yet, the interaction of halides with metal surfaces is
also interesting from a surface science point of view. It
has been known for a long time that the adsorption of
halogen atoms on metal surfaces can lead to an anoma
lous decrease in the work function 1114.


---

Description:
A salt formed during the conversion of a metal anode in Cl-ion batteries.

Text:
These com
putational studies found that Cl preferentially adsorbs
in the threefold hollow positions on Mg(0001) associ
ated with a slight increase in the workfunction. Upon
the operation of a Clion batteries, the metal anode will
be converted to a chloride salt which provides the ther
modynamical driving force for the discharge of a Clion
battery. The energy gain upon this conversion does in
fact represent the driving force in the Clion battery op
eration 5, 6. This means that the adsorption of chlorine
on the metal anode does only correspond to the first step
in the anode conversion upon discharge.


---

Description:
A salt formed from the conversion of a metal anode in Clion batteries.

Text:
Still, it is in
teresting from a fundamental as well as from an applied
point of view how the overall conversion of the metal an
ode on Clion batteries from a bulk metal to a chloride
salt proceeds. It is wellknown that metals can form socalled surface
oxides, i.e. thin adsorbed films with an oxidelike struc
ture, upon the exposure of metals to an oxygen atmo
sphere as a function of the oxygen concentration 21, 22. Hence the question arises whether metal surfaces upon
the exposure to halogen species might form equivalent
structure corresponding to a surface salt, i.e., thin films
with metalhalide like structures.
