Description:
Used in tandem copolymerization with an oxanorbornene comonomer for circular HDPE-like polyester.

Text:
Several notable recent advances were made towards circular HDPElike polymers with closed
loop chemical recyclability through incorporation of cleavable linkages such as ester bonds into 
the PE backbones. In 2021, longchain alkyl polyester produced via polycondensation of diol 
or diester monomers26,27 was reported to possess HDPElike thermomechanical properties23.In 
2022, another approach to circular HDPElike polyester was developed using the diester end
capped PE obtained via tandem dehydrogenationmetathesis of postconsumer HDPE24 or 
tandem ethylene copolymerization with an oxanorbornene comonomer, retroDielsAlder 
reaction, and metathesis25 (Fig. 1b).


---

Description:
A feedstock used in the copolymerization with olefins to produce copolymers.

Text:
As compared to HDPE, ethyleneolefin copolymers 
produced atscale by direct copolymerization of ethylene and olefins have a broader range of 
applications as well as highvalue polyolefin elastomer (POE) and robust olefin block 
copolymer (OBC) thermoplastic elastomer (plastomer) materials, but chemical or mechanical 
recycling of such copolymers is considerably more challenging due to their chemical and 
structural heterogeneity. Hence, there is a pressing need to render such materials chemically 
circular but achieving such a desirable goal presents a particular challenge, due to difficulties 
in introducing controllable branches, while simultaneously installing chemical circularity, and 
also in primarily using industrially abundant and inexpensive feedstocks, ethylene and olefins 
such as 1hexene or 1octene.


---

Description:
A compound used in coordination (co)polymerization in the plastics industry.

Text:
We reasoned that an effective and scalable approach should be an innovative dropin 
process based on the widely practiced coordination (co)polymerization of ethylene and 
olefins in the current plastics industry28.To realize this strategy, we first synthesize ABtype 
telechelic PE building blocks endcapped with alcohol (OH) functionality (A) at one end and 
ester (CO2Et) functionality (B) at the other by coordinative chaintransfer polymerization 
(CCTP) of ethylene and 1octene with suitable chaintransfer and chainend capping reagents. We further hypothesized that the advantage of AB telechelic building blocks over A2  B2 ones 
in polycondensation, especially concerning precise stoichiometric control, should allow for 
LEGOtype modular assembly of AB building blocks into ondemand PE materials.
