Description:
Materials with excellent electrical conductivity, chemical and thermal stability, light weight, and low cost of preparation.

Text:
Carbon materials have industrial applications owing to their ex
cellent features such as electrical conductivity, chemical and 
thermal stability, light weight, and low cost of preparation.1 Nev
ertheless, the actual structures of carbon materials have not been 
well documented until recently, except for their chemical com
position. Recent developments in analytical technologies for 
probing the structure of carbon materials, such as transmission 
electron microscopy,24 Raman spectroscopy,57 and highsensi
tivity temperatureprogrammed desorption methods,8,9 have en
abled understanding of the actual threedimensional (3D) struc
ture of carbon materials at the molecular and atomic levels. With the developed tools for nanoscale analysis, the synthesis 
and understanding of nanostructured carbon materials have fur
ther expanded their fields and applications.


---

Description:
Used in various forms such as fibers, nanotubes, graphenes, structural graphite, and foams with improved physicochemical properties.

Text:
Various synthesis 
methods have been investigated with the aid of advanced 
nanostructural analysis for nanostructured carbon materials, in
cluding arc discharge,10 template carbonization,2,11 conversion of 
graphene oxides12,13 to their reduced analog,13,14 fine organic 
synthesis,15,16 topochemical pyrolysis,1719 and chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD).2024 Consequently, many advanced carbon 
materials, including carbon fibers, carbon nanotubes (CNTs), 
graphenes, structural graphite, and carbon foams have been de
veloped with improved physicochemical properties, and they are 
growing at a compound average growth rate (CAGR) of 6 
with an annual global market of 3 billion USD in 2015.25 They 
are extensively used as adsorbents,26 catalysts,2733 and catalyst 
supports,34 conductive additives,3537 and anode materials38 in 
batteries, supercapacitors,39,40 polymerelectrolyte fuel cells 
(PEFCs),41 and photothermal conversion.42 
In this context, the chemical science of twodimensional (2D) 
graphene and its zerodimensional (0D) and onedimensional 
(1D) analogs have been extensively studied in recent decades.


---

Description:
Used in catalytic carbonization to prepare 3D graphene architecture.

Text:
A class of 1Dgraphene, carbon nano
tubes49,50 and cylindrical analogs,51 has also been investigated for 
electrochemical and catalysis applications owing to their high 
electrical conductivity.52 
A challenging aspect is the synthesis of the corresponding 3D 
graphene materials5355 from a 2D scaffold.13 Reducing the di
mension of 2D graphene can be used to develop 3D graphene; 
the 0D analog of the fullerene family,56 a good electron accep
tor,57 can be used as a building block to develop 3Danalogs.58 
Catalytic carbonization has also been successfully applied to pre
pare 3D graphene architecture.23,29,59 However, the precise syn
thesis of 3Dordered graphene materials with welldefined neg
ativelycurved 3D networks60,61 remains an emerging topic since 
British scientists predicted imaginary carbon frameworks with 8
membered rings in hexagons to achieve a 3D structure with low 
strain.53 These materials are highly symmetric and possess 
highly ordered nanostructures that provide various fascinating 
functions (vide infra).


---

Description:
Imaginary 3D-ordered carbon frameworks with novel electronic nature are appealing for various applications.

Text:
For example, material surfaces for the ad
sorption of gases should be as homogeneous as possible with re
spect to the structure and chemical composition62 for better and 
faster reactions, and imaginary 3Dordered carbon frameworks 
should meet these criteria. The novel electronic nature of these 
frameworks makes them appealing for various applications. a. Department of Chemical Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology 
Ookayama 2121, Meguro, Tokyo 1528550, Japan 
Email yamamotomolchem.com 
b. Institute of Multidisciplinary Research for Advanced Materials 
Tohoku University, 211 Katahira, Aoba, Sendai 9808577, Japan 
c. RIKEN Center for Advanced Photonics, RIKEN, 21 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 
3510198, Japan, Email kaoru.yamazakiriken.jp 
d. Institute for Materials Research 
Tohoku University, 211 Katahira, Aoba, Sendai 9808577, Japan 
.Electronic Supplementary Information (ESI) available synthetic details and char
acterisation of materials.
