Description:
A deuterated form of chloronium ion with similar reaction rate coefficients.

Text:
However, prior to the launch of Herschel, H35Cl and H37Cl were the only Clbearing molecules
detected in and around the ISM 4, 5, 6, 7. This can be explained by the fact that the H2Cl ion transforms
into hydrogen chloride, HCl by dissociative recombination or by proton transfer to carbon monoxide CO. In
addition to the detection by Herschel, another study reported by Neufeld et al 8, also detected absorption and
emission of H2Cl from two interstellar cloud sources. The chemical reactions that give rise to the deuterated
forms HDCl and D2Cl are similar to those giving the chloronium ion, H2Cl, with the same orders of
magnitude of the reaction rate coefficient. It follows that, like the chloronium ion, its deuterated isotopologues
should be abundant in the ISM.


---

Description:
A deuterated isotopologue whose existence has not been observed in the ISM.

Text:
Surprisingly, to date, the existence of these deuterated isotopologues (HDCl
and D2Cl) has not been observed in the ISM. The availability of accurate spectroscopic data on chloronium and its deuterated forms could greatly facilitate
their identification in interstellar space. Despite their importance, very few spectroscopic data on this ion
and even less on its deuterated forms HDCl and D2Cl are available in the literature. Experimentally, the
first structural information on the chloronium ion was reported in 1986 by Kawaguchi and Hirota 9, who
studied its 2 band with infrared diode laser spectroscopy. Saito et al. 10 detected microwave spectral lines
of H235Cl in 1988. In the same year, Lee et al 11 worked on the differencefrequency laser spectroscopy
of the chloronium.


---

Description:
Vibrational frequencies computed theoretically at CEPA level.

Text:
These latter authors have observed the gas phase of the 1 and 2 fundamental bands of
H2Cl and determined its equilibrium structure. The rotational spectra of H2Cl and HDCl were measured
by Araki et al 12 using a submillimeterwave spectrometer. Furthermore, theoretically, Botschwina 13
computed a potential energy surface (PES) at coupled electronpair approximation (CEPA) level and the
vibrational frequencies for H2Cl and its isotopologues HDCl and D2Cl. More recently, after the detection
of the chloronium ion, Majumdar et al 14 explored the possibility of finding the isotopologues of H2Cl in
and around the ISM. These authors used MollerPlesset perturbation theory (MP2) along with a quadruplezeta
email afankokourobertgmail.com
email issagoudouyagmail.com
email ksodogaunivlome.tg
Corresponding author David.Lauvergnatuniversiteparissaclay.fr
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023b4hhmv2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000282583531 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
