Description:
A material with impressive thermoelectric performance and high valley degeneracy, used for Peltier cooling of optoelectronics.

Text:
The impressive thermoelectric (TE) performance of Bi2Te3 is
indisputable. 1 Equipped with a valley degeneracy of NV  6 or
more, 2 Bi2Te3based materials have recorded some of the high
est zTs near room temperature to date and have long been the
material of choice for applications such as Peltier cooling of opto
electronics. The high valley degeneracy in particular has been at
tributed to topological properties of the material; namely, the bulk
band structure becomes warped due to the strong band inversion,
causing the band edges to be offset to lowsymmetry kpoints in
the Brillouin zone.


---

Description:
A topological insulator with warped, inverted bands and high valley degeneracy.

Text:
The bands in the
TI material Bi2Se3, for example, are not warped as evidenced by
the singlevalleyed electronic structure (NV  1, Figure 1b). In
contrast, the bands are sufficiently inverted in Bi2Te3, giving rise
to a comparatively higher valley degeneracy of NV  6 (Figure
aDepartment of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston,
IL 60208. Email MichaelToriyama2024u.northwestern.edu, jeff.snydernorthwestern.edu
Bi2Te3
(Inverted, warped)
Bi2Se3
(Inverted, not warped)
(a)
(b)
(c)
Warped
Inverted
Fig. 1 Band inversion and bulk band structure. (a) Illustration of
band inversiondriven warping in topological insulators. Stronger band
inversion generally leads to warped bands after a critical inversion
strength and, as a result, high valley degeneracy. The concept is
exemplified by (b) Bi2Se3 and (c) Bi2Te3.


---

Description:
A topological insulator with sufficiently inverted bands resulting in warped bands and high valley degeneracy.

Text:
Both compounds are
topological insulators and have inverted bands; yet, the bands are not
sufficiently inverted in Bi2Se3 resulting in a single valley (NV  1),
whereas the bands are sufficiently inverted in Bi2Te3 resulting in warped
bands and high valley degeneracy (NV  6). 110  1
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20233nvl3 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000225301390 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
