Description:
Forms a 3D continuous architecture in nanoporous carbon materials.

Text:
Nanoporous graphene (NPG) materials16 enjoy the high electro
chemical stability, high electrical conductivity, and flexibility of 
the continuous threedimensional (3D) graphene architecture, 
with high surface area and nanoporosity. NPGs are synthesized 
by (i) chemical vapor deposition (CVD) of methane (CH4) using 
nanoparticles of nontransitionmetal oxides such as alumina 
(Al2O3)7 and MgO8 as the template, (ii) the subsequent acid 
etching for removing the metal oxides, and (iii) the annealing of 
the obtained nanoporous carbon (NPC) materials to give the 3D 
continuous architecture (Fig. 1).


---

Description:
A gaseous source used for kinetically achieving the formation of monolayered carbon.

Text:
The mechanism of the initial 
NPCs formation at the earlystage CH4CVD reactions has been 
welldocumented based on the reaction kinetics and quantum 
chemistry.1,3 The use of relatively inert CH49 as the gaseous car
bon source is crucial for kinetically achieving the formation of 
monolayered carbon.1 
We also revealed that the thermal treatment1016 of NPCs at 
high temperatures under an inert atmosphere affords the corre
sponding NPGs by fusing the Hterminated edges,2,17 and this is 
the origin of the electrochemical stability of NPGs.


---

Description:
A key component in the development of continuous porous materials based on NPGs chemistry.

Text:
This anneal
ing following the CH4CVD synthesis will also improve the in
tegrity of the graphene architecture by reducing the defect con
centration, which is helpful to develop stable electrochemical de
vices using NPGs such as longlived airmetal batteries etc.18 
The quantitative evaluation of the defect type and concentration 
beforeafter annealing will be a starting point for the 
development of stateoftheart continuous porous carbon mate
rials based on NPGs chemistry,1,2 but recent investigations on the 
structural changes upon annealing by changing the size of tem
plates16,19 gave us a qualitative picture. In this work, we carefully revisited the Raman spectra of 
NPCs and NPGs to quantitatively analyze the surface defects 
with aids of temperatureprogrammed desorption (TPD), Xray 
diffraction (XRD), and nitrogen physisorption analysis.


---

Description:
Forms 1D nanotubes and is a component of graphene-related materials.

Text:
Raman 
spectroscopy has been used for the structure characterization of 
2D graphenes and 1D carbon nanotubes,2024 and it could also be 
applicable to the curved 3D analogues to provide insights into 
the structural disorders which breaks the translational symmetry, 
such as edges, defects, and grain boundaries of graphenerelated 
materials.2529 The TPD, based on the detection of desorbed mol
ecules including H2, CO, and CO2, rationalizes the density of 
edges and adatoms,17 while the XRD and nitrogen physisorption 
validate the number of graphene layers in the carbon materials.2 
We found that both the NPCs and NPGs mostly consist of 
singlelayered graphene with a few single vacancies and Stone
Wales defects. In addition, a significant healing of the surface
