Description:
A precursor dye used in primary brain tumor surgery that exhibits high water-solubility.

Text:
The established treatment of primary brain tumors includes an initial tumor resection in a surgical 
procedure using fluorescencesupported tumor tissue visualization (8). For this purpose, the patient is 
administered a fluorescent dye, capable of passing the disrupted bloodbrainbarrier that selectively 
accumulates in the cancerous tissue. Precise tumor removal is then aided by the use of intermittent dye
specific illumination, which allows better contrast between healthy and cancerous brain tissue (9). The 
application of 5aminolevulinic acid (5ALA), as a precursor dye, is currently considered the gold 
standard for primary brain tumor surgery (10, 11). This molecule exhibits high watersolubility, which 
facilitates its implementation as pharmaceutical formulation, and thus its administration to the patient.


---

Description:
Enzymatically transformed into Protoporphyrin IX in brain tumors.

Text:
After accumulating in the brain tumor, 5ALA is enzymatically transformed into Protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) 
(12), which is the fluorophore used for tumor visualization. The brain tumor surgery is followed by 
radiochemotherapy to reduce residual tissue and thus improve the overall tumor removal (13, 14). However, these therapies do not selectively affect cancerous tissue and result in collateral damage of 
healthy, surrounding brain cells. A recent therapeutic approach, with the goal of establishing a tumor specific therapeutic alternative to 
chemo or radiotherapy, focuses on enhancing the functionality of the already administered fluorescent 
dye used for tumor visualization to additionally act as a photosensitizing agent in photodynamic therapy 
(PDT) (15).


---

Description:
Can pass the disturbed blood-brain barrier and allows for effective ROS formation.

Text:
Like 5ALA, it can pass the disturbed blood
brain barrier and additionally exhibits a high triplet quantum yield that allows for an effective ROS 
formation (23, 24). A direct comparison between hypericin and 5ALA revealed a significantly higher 
photocytotoxicity of hypericin (22). Hypericin was shown to accumulate in the perinuclear region in 
various tumor cell lines with main enrichment sites in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the Golgi 
apparatus, mitochondria and lysosomes (2527). This accumulation behavior has a major influence on 
PDT progression and might affect the actual cell death mechanism. Hypericin uptake and distribution 
was further studied in tumor spheroid models (28) followed by hypericin PDT (29). To understand hypericin PDT, the mechanistical steps of the damaging and dying process need to be 
revealed.
