Description:
Contain heteroatoms embedded into the helicene backbones, noted for excellent luminescence and redox properties.

Text:
Tillys group synthesized expanded nhelicenes (B) 
with three different lengths (n  15, 19, 23), and compared 
the racemization barriers and dissymmetry factors.8) By 
contrast, Hirose and Matsuda have reported extended 
ncarbohelicenes (C) with three different lengths (n  5, 7, 
9), and compared their chiroptical properties, aromaticity, 
and ultrafast dynamics in the excited state.9) As another 
type of helicene analog, heterohelicenes, in which heteroa
toms are embedded into the helicene backbones, have also 
attracted attention because of their excellent luminescence 
and redox properties.10,11) Generally, heterohelicenes are 
more electronrich compared with carbohelicenes, thus 
their HOMO energy levels are continuously destabilized 
with the extension.


---

Description:
Compounds that are more difficult to synthesize with full conjugation.

Text:
Therefore, it is more difficult to syn
thesize longer heterohelicenes with full conjugation, 
whereas several heterohelicenes with a doublelayered 
structure have been synthesized; one example is diazatri
oxa13helicene D.12) Furthermore, a triplelayered struc
ture was accomplished with oxanhelicene E (n  17, 19) 
albeit with disrupted conjugation.13) To qualitatively eval
uate the electronic properties of helicenes, however, it is 
necessary to systematically synthesize fully conjugated het
erohelicenes of different lengths, therefore, a synthetic 
strategy toward longer heterohelicene would be indispen
sable. Currently, few systematic synthetic methods are 
available for the synthesis of heterohelicenes.


---

Description:
Formed from oxidative fusion reactions of orthophenylene-bridged oligopyrroles.

Text:
We recently reported oneshot oxidative fusion reactions 
of orthophenylenebridged oligopyrroles to afford various 
heterocirculenes and heterohelicenes.14,15) Notably, tetra
aza8circulenes, with planar structures excluding any ste
rically encumbering substituents, are fairly soluble in THF 
and DMSO.16) This property arises from effective hydrogen
bonding interactions between the pyrrolic NH site and the 
Hbond accepting solvent molecule. Inspired by this molec
ular design principle, we report a synthetic challenge for 
longer azahelicenes with outerpointing pyrrolic NH sites. By exploiting the oneshot oxidative fusion reactions of suit
ably designed indoleterminated acyclic oligopyrroles (vide 
infra), a series of benzannulated azanhelicenes were ob
tained. This structure is suitable for suppressing the 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20234z7z6 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000180187984 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
