Description:
An abundant and inexpensive feedstock used in polymerization methods.

Text:
To realize these benefits, 
readily accessible polymers that respond to such lowpower irradiation are required. Addressing these needs, this study describes the modification of lowcost polymers made 
from elemental sulfur and either cyclopentadiene or dicyclopentadiene using low power 
continuous wave lasers with wavelengths of 532, 638, 690, and 786 nm. Polymers made from 
elemental sulfur have received increasing attention with the advent of inverse vulcanization8 
and related polymerization methods912 that convert this abundant and inexpensive feedstock 
into functional polysulfide materials.


---

Description:
A component of polymers that imparts chemical, physical, and optical properties.

Text:
The high sulfur content of these intriguing polymers 
imparts a variety of chemical, physical, and optical properties that enable diverse applications 
in energy storage,8, 13, 14 thermal imaging optics,1518 and metal binding.1921 Additionally, the S
S bonds in these polymers can be broken and reformed, which enables repair and recycling.2224 
It is the lability of the SS bonds in these sulfur copolymers that led to the discoveries 
detailed in this report. Specifically, it was found that the surface of a copolymer made from 
sulfur and cyclopentadiene was visibly altered after an exposure of less than 1 second to a 690 
nm, 1.10 mW diode laser. Given the low power of the laser and brief exposure times, this rapid 
polymer modification was a surprise.


---

Description:
A component used in the formation of a polymer with dicyclopentadiene.

Text:
Here, we disclose this phenomenon for the first time and 
investigate it in detail for a range of laser systems. The direct modification for a related polymer 
made from sulfur and dicyclopentadiene was also studied.25, 26 The objective was to understand 
and control this process and use it for precision polymer modification. Methods are described 
for temporally and spatiallycontrolled swelling or ablation of the polymer surfaces, as well as 
efforts to thermally erase these modifications. These insights enabled a variety of novel 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023v23n6 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000275045508 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
