Description:
Enhances the nucleophilicity of the orthoester intermediate, facilitating allylic substitution.

Text:
in 2008 (Scheme 1C).5 Although this latter example is 
chemoselective, the substrates are not readily available, require 
additional steps for the introduction of two different leaving 
groups7 and suffer from a lack of diversity. Herein, we propose to 
solve the question of regio and chemoselective double allylic 
substitutions from readily available alkenyl vicdiols using a 
sequential dual catalysis approach, in which each catalytic 
system will allow the introduction of a different nucleophile at 
will.8 
Taking inspiration from the work of Borhans group on diol 
activation,9 we imagined that alkenyl vicdiols could be activated 
by trimethyl orthoacetate to form a cyclic orthoester intermediate 
(Scheme 1D). The addition of a Lewis acid would exacerbate the 
nucleophilicity of the orthoester intermediate, facilitating the first 
allylic substitution.


---

Description:
Involved in dual catalysis with transition metals for double allylic substitution.

Text:
During this process, ringopening of the 
transient cyclic orthoester would result in the formation of an allylic 
acetate, which could sequentially undergo a classical TsujiTrost 
reaction in the presence of a palladium catalyst. This dual 
catalysis approach would solve the problems of chemoselectivity 
inherent to double allylic substitutions. Nevertheless, this raises 
the question of catalyst compatibility between the Lewis acid and 
Pd catalysts.10 The regioselectivity of each substitution will also 
be a key challenge for this double transformation. Herein, we present a novel method for the double allylic 
substitution of alkenylvicdiols, employing dual catalysis (Lewis 
acidtransition metal). This approach enables the introduction of 
two distinct nucleophiles, providing direct access to complex 
molecular scaffolds. httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2023c9525v2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000279090234 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
