Description:
Involved in dimerization forming a cyclobutanepyrimidine dimer (CPD) upon UV irradiation.

Text:
Exploration on thymine chemistry mainly focused on dimerization forming a cyclobutanepyrimidine 
dimer (CPD)14 and the reverse photolyasecatalyzed dissociation of CPD in the past decades3,4. The 
dimer CPD formation via 22 cycloaddition is a harmful reaction occurring in DNA and it is the most 
abundant DNA lesion upon ultraviolet (UV) irradiation that eventually causes skin cancer2; and this 
dimer formation is also responsible for bacteria inactivation by subsequent inhibiting the DNA 
replication3.


---

Description:
Undergoes oxidative chemistry on DNA creating a radical cation via loss of an electron.

Text:
The latter dissociation involved with breaking of two CC bonds is an important process 
for repairing DNA lesion.3,4 Oxidative chemistry of thymine on DNA creating a radical cation via loss of 
an electron was less explored because tutorially reaction occurs primarily at guanines because they 
have low oxidation potentials (Eox) and primary oxidation at thymine resulted to DNA cleavage was 
only observed in guanine poor regions.5,6 However, it was reported7 (Figure 1) that UVBexposed 
thyminecontaining antiHIVAIDS drug Azidothymidine (AZT, also known as Zidovudine) induced DNA 
damage predominantly at thymine and cytosine residues in the presence of Cu(II) at the 5ACG3 
sequence, complementary to a hot spot of the p53 tumor suppressor gene with piperidine treatment; 
and the concurrent formation of 8oxodG via oxidation of guanine did not lead to DNA cleavage.


---

Description:
Involved in one-electron oxidation chemistry on DNA.

Text:
Furthermore, experimental evidences had confirmed the side effects after prolonged treatment with 
a high dose of AZT, that AZTmonophosphate could be incorporated into DNA by human DNA 
polymerases  and 8, and that increased reactive oxygen species was a component of the mechanism 
of perinatal carcinogenesis by AZT in mice9. To better manage such side effects, a future better 
understanding of oneelectron oxidation chemistry of thymine on DNA is highly demanded. However, 
the factors in determining the divergent pathways are not yet clear, though two main processes of 
water addition to the thymine radical cation and protoncoupled electron transfer (PCET) at methyl 
group were proposed (Scheme 1A) for elucidation of the reaction mechanism at thymine5,6,10. Figure 1.
