Description:
A promising candidate for next-generation LIB anodic material with a high theoretical gravimetric capacity of 4200 mAh/g and relatively low cost.

Text:
Accordingly, the exorbitant costs of batterygrade graphite (8,00015,000 USD per ton) are 
rapidly increasing amidst recent uptakes in electric vehicle production 3 4 5. Consequently, these 
significant concerns are driving the exploration of sustainable alternative materials for battery 
production. In this context, Silicon is a promising candidate for nextgeneration LIB anodic material in 
accordance with its high theoretical gravimetric capacity of 4200 mAhg and relatively low 
cost as the second most abundant element on earth 6 7. However, poor intrinsic electrical 
conductivity (103 Scm) along with extreme volume expansion (420) during lithiation 
significantly hinders its rate capability and cycling stability, thereby commercially limiting the 
use of siliconbased anodes 8 9.


---

Description:
Elemental anodes with challenges in cyclic stability and industrial-level stability.

Text:
The high electrical conductivity and mechanical stability 
exhibited by various carbon polymorphs has prompted extensive exploration of siliconcarbon 
composite anodes as a strategy for addressing the challenges associated with elemental silicon 
anodes, demonstrating notable enhancements in cyclic stability, capacity retention, and rate 
performance 10 11. Unfortunately, these composites frequently require costly and impractical 
syntheses, expensive binder materials, conductive additives and unsustainable carbon 
precursors 12. Additional, low overall silicon contents and not yet industriallevel stability in 
such anodes are notable issues. Due to these shortcomings, siliconcarbon composite anodes 
have yet to be widely implemented in commercial battery production. This being the case, this work proposes the first use of raw jellyfish biomass as a lowcost, 
sustainable, and ecofriendly carbon precursor for siliconcarbon composite anodes.
