Description:
Chiral sulfur (VI) pharmacophores postulated as a chiral bioisostere to carboxylic acids and sulfonamides.

Text:
Sulfur (VI) functional groups such as sulfonamides and sul
fones have a rich history of impacting human life through me
dicinal and agrochemical applications. Their corresponding, 
largely untapped, chiral sulfur (VI) pharmacophores have re
cently emerged as targets of interest in medicinal chemistry.1 
As examples, sulfoximines,2 sulfondiimines,3 and sulfonimid
amides4 (Figure 1A) offer attractive properties for pharmaceu
tical applications chirality, stability, solubility, desirable phys
icochemical characteristics, hydrogen bonding propensity, and 
multiple sites to incorporate structural diversity.5 Specifically, 
sulfonimidamides have been postulated to be a chiral bi
oisostere to carboxylic acids6 and sulfonamides,7, 8 common 
moieties in many drug candidates. However, this motif has yet 
to be widely deployed due to limited commercial availability 
and a dearth of practical asymmetric synthetic methods.


---

Description:
Compounds that undergo enantioselective arylcarbonylation with aryl and heteroaryl iodides.

Text:
As a consequence, we recently disclosed an enantioselective 
Pdcatalyzed arylcarbonylation of sulfonimidamides with aryl 
and heteroaryl iodides (Figure 1B).9 This reaction leveraged the 
rapid tautomerization of the imido and amido nitrogens on un
protected sulfonimidamide starting materials, which provided a 
unique opportunity to desymmetrize the prochiral nitrogens via 
dynamic kinetic resolution. Additionally, Willis and coworkers 
have reported an enantioselective alkylation of protected sul
fonimidamides using cinchona alkaloidderived phasetransfer 

Figure 1. (A) Medicinallyrelevant molecules containing sulfur 
(VI) functional groups. (B) Previously reported desymmetriza
tion of sulfonimidamides. (C) This work. httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024qm8jp ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000257468830 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
