Description:
A metal that is a component of zinc-dependent histone deacetylases, which are enzymes involved in chromatin remodeling.

Text:
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are enzymes that catalyze the removal of the acetyl group from the lysine 
residue of histone protein leading to condensed chromatin structures, a process that suppresses 
transcription 1. The histone deacetylase family is classified into four classes. Eleven zinc dependent 
HDACs have been identified so far and constitute class I, class II and class IV of the family with 
HDAC11 being the only member of class IV 2. There is growing evidence that HDAC11 is implicated 
in various pathophysiological processes 3, 4 including various carcinomas 48. These findings 
establish HDAC11 as a potential target for anticancer therapeutics. Few selective HDAC11 inhibitors have been reported in literature.


---

Description:
An element that can bind with hydroxamic acid moieties in inhibitors.

Text:
FT895 is a hydroxamic acid based 
HDAC11 selective inhibitor that was reported by Forma Therapeutics 9 and could significantly reduce 
nonsmall cell lung cancer cells viability 10. Recently, Bai et al. reported the development of PB94, 
which also bears a hydroxamic acid moiety as zinc binding group and demonstrated beneficial effect in a 
neuropathic pain mouse model 11. Since the defattyacylase activity of HDAC11 is confirmed 12, 13, 
the ability of HDAC11 to accommodate longer alkyl chain was exploited for the design and development 
of selective inhibitors as the alkyl hydrazide derivative SIS17 which bears a 16 carbon long alkyl chain 
14 and the natural product trapoxin A analogue TD034 15. Currently, there is no crystal structure reported for HDAC11.


---

Description:
An ion used in the optimization of the HDAC11 AlphaFold model.

Text:
However, AlphaFold models demonstrated worse performance in several studies when assessed for 
docking or virtual screening in comparison to their corresponding crystal structures 2226 which 
suggests that further refinement is required for AlphaFold models prior to utilization for the aim of drug 
design and discovery. We previously optimized the HDAC11 AlphaFold model 16 by docking the zinc ion into the protein 
model followed by minimization in presence of HDAC11 inhibitors which were also found co
crystallized with HDAC8. Moreover, we showed that the optimized model could be successfully used for 
docking of HDAC11 selective inhibitors as FT895 and SIS17.
