Description:
A high-performance thermosetting polymer with excellent mechanical qualities, chemical resistance, and fire resistance, used in aerospace components.

Text:
A series of highperformance thermosetting polymers known as 
bismaleimide (BMI) resins has several desirable qualities that make 
them ideal for use in a variety of industrial applications, especially 
those involving aerospace components. They have excellent 
mechanical qualities, low shrinkage, chemical resistance, fire 
resistance, and great resistance to a wide range of solvents, acids, 
and water. Additionally, BMI coating has been used to prevent 
corrosion. The characteristics of the polymer as an inorganic
organic composite can be affected by the addition of inorganic 
elements, such as metal oxides. Applications for organicinorganic 
composites are numerous in the fields of chemistry, medicine, 
electronics, and optics 15. Utilising BMI resins special combination of high temperature 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20241ls4s ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000344269194 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv.


---

Description:
Used for corrosion protection and EMI shielding.

Text:
License CC BY 4.0

2 

2 

performance and good processability has generated a lot of 
interest since they first became known as competitive high
performance solutions. BMI has been blended with titania, Ferric 
chloride as well as Graphene sheet. Metallization and APPJ 
treatment of Bismaleimide have shown better performance as 
corrosion protection and EMI shielding 6. BMI monomers are 
molecules with two maleimide functional groups terminating them; 
they frequently contain several aromatic moieties to improve their 
curing properties (Fig. 1a) shows the typical structure of these 
compounds) 7. The crystalline and structural configuration of the 
composite system generated at various temperatures was revealed 
through XRD and FTIR measurements 812. 

. Fig 1 Basic structure of BMI 9 (selfdrawn) (b)crosslinking of BMI (CC BY 4.0.)
