Description:
Complex chemical structures consisting of two hydrophobic tails connected to a polar head group.

Text:
All life on Earth requires lipid membranes, which separate the interior of cells from the extracellular environment, 
control transport, and act as a scaffold for numerous biochemical reactions. Given their importance in biology, it has 
long been questioned what constituted the very first, primordial cell membranelike structures on Earth before the 
emergence of life, and how such structures could have been formed in the absence of complex and highly evolved 
biological machinery? In extant cells, the membrane is predominantly composed of phospholipids (1 . Phospholipids 
have complex chemical structures, consisting of two hydrophobic tails connected to a polar head group, and their 
biosynthesis requires a multistep enzymatic process that utilizes several soluble and membrane bound proteins (2, 3 .


---

Description:
Molecules containing three alkyl chains formed from thiol and thioester reactions.

Text:
Interestingly, it was also observed that the remaining thiol group of the diacylated product can 
further react with additional thioesters to generate phospholipids containing three alkyl chains. Inspired by these findings, 
we hypothesized that cysteine itself may undergo NCL in the presence of acyl thioesters followed by substrate reloading, 
leading to the production of diacylcysteine species. Both cysteine and shortchain thioesters have been shown to be 
synthesized by prebiotically plausible routes, and both can be produced in abundance, the latter through derivatization 
of shortchain fatty acids (24, 25 . Furthermore, recent studies have highlighted the significance of cysteine in prebiotic 
metabolism, for instance as a catalyst for peptide bond formation (24 .


---

Description:
Conventional compounds with larger head group size compared to diacylcysteines.

Text:
Considering the smaller head group size of the 
diacylcysteines compared to conventional phospholipids, and the presence of two hydrophobic tails, we suspected that 
diacylcysteines would have a much lower critical aggregate concentration (cac compared to singlechain fatty acids of 
similar tail lengths, which may enable vesicle formation even with very shortchain thioester precursors. Here we report the spontaneous diacylation of Cys with shortchain choline thioesters (CTs , forming celllike giant 
membrane vesicles (Figure 1A . Diacylcysteine compounds with very short C) hydrophobic tails form lamellar vesicle 
structures at submillimolar concentrations, likely because the compact head group has a comparable crosssectional 
area to the two short hydrophobic tails.
