Description:
The smallest homolog of the ketene series, also known as ethenone, identified in aerosols from vaping products and considered a potential public health hazard.

Text:
Ketenes comprise a unique class of cumulene molecules with the general formula 
RRCCO. Initially described by Wedekind as a reactive intermediate in 1901,1 Staudinger 
reported the first synthesis and characterization of a ketene molecule, diphenyl ketene 
(RRPh), in 1905.2 Since that time, despite their relative instability, ketenes have served as 
valuable reagents and intermediates in organic synthesis.3 4 Currently, however, the smallest 
homolog (RRH, ketene, ethenone) of the series is receiving attention as a potentially 
significant public health hazard,5 since it has been identified in aerosols generated by 
commercial vaping products.6 7 
The chemical and toxicological properties of ketene mirror those of phosgene 
(Cl2CO), a WWI chemical warfare agent, as a reactive acylating agent and respiratory 
poison.8 There is a lack of human toxicity data for ketene exposure.


---

Description:
Has delayed effects resulting from the nonenzymatic acylation of lung proteins and has acute exposure guideline levels of 0.24 ppm for 10 min and 0.088 ppm for 8 h.

Text:
The available animal data 
was obtained mainly prior to 1950. Exposure to animals causes alveolar damage and a 
delayed onset of pulmonary toxicity leading to death by pulmonary edema.8 Similar to 
phosgene, the delayed effects result from the nonenzymatic acylation of lung proteins, as 
opposed to direct irritation. The Acute Exposure Guideline Levels (AEGL)3 (lifethreatening 
levels) for ketene are 0.24 ppm for 10 min and 0.088 ppm for 8 h.8 
Vitamin E acetate (VEA) has been linked to the 20192020 ecigarette or vaping 
product useassociated lung injury (EVALI) epidemic, in large part due to VEAs prevalence 
in patient samples.9 In 2020, Wu and OShea reported the formation of ketene when heating 
and vaping VEA,7 indicating an additional possible link between ketene and EVALI.


---

Description:
A chemical that may pose a risk for significant lung injury.

Text:
There is 
general agreement that EVALI is caused by chemical toxicant inhalation.10 However, to date, 
neither ketene, VEA, nor any other specific chemical has been conclusively proven to be the 
causative agent of EVALI. Moreover, although there has been a significant decline since 
2020, cases continue to be observed throughout the US.10 
Regardless of whether VEAderived ketene is a primary cause of EVALI, any source 
of exposure to ketene may put one at risk for significant lung injury.


---

Description:
Emitted by acetylated cannabinoids under real-world vaping conditions.

Text:
Recently, we reported 
that four acetylated cannabinoids (acetylated 8 and 9 THC, CBN, and CBD; Figure 1), 
produce ketene emissions under realworld vaping conditions, from either a vape pen or dab 
platform, including at levels in range of NIOSH (National Institute for Occupational Safety  
Health) thresholds.7 Interestingly, aerosolized THC products had been reported to cause acute 
respiratory syndromes prior to the EVALI outbreak.11
