Description:
Involved in irreversible loss from the crystalline lattice in LMR layered oxide materials.

Text:
Irreversible oxygen loss is a wellknown challenge in Li and Mnrich (LMR) layered 
oxide materials, which are promising positive electrodes for lithiumion batteries1. This 
phenomenon, written in KrgerVink notation in Eq. (1), involves transition metal (TM) 
reduction, oxygen vacancy (V
) formation, and the irreversible loss of oxygen from the 
crystalline lattice 
O
  2TM,
  V 2TM,
. 1
2 O0(g) (1) 

In general terms, we use O2 in Eq. (1) to represent any oxygen lost from the crystalline 
lattice that is unable to return to its original O2 state. Most intuitively, it would include 
molecular gaseous oxygen which has been observed directly during the first delithiation of LMR 
electrodes25.


---

Description:
Its irreversible loss from the lattice modifies electrochemically active redox couples and contributes to cation disordering.

Text:
Additionally, the O2 term also includes either oxygen which reacts with the 
electrolyte or which dimerizes during cycling610 and is unable to return to its original O2 state. Regardless of the exact identity of the O2 term, the irreversible loss of oxygen from the lattice 
will modify the electrochemicallyactive redox couples1116, lower the cell voltage11, and 
contribute to cation disordering within the crystalline lattice through vacancy (Schottky) defect 
pairs11,12,17. We note that Eq. (1) considers the fully lithiated (i.e. discharged) material, and thus a 
fully lithiated material which has experienced oxygen loss over cycling will exhibit a reduced 
TM oxidation state compared to that of the pristine material. At intermediate points within the 
chargedischarge cycle, the charge compensation for lost oxygen will vary.


---

Description:
Can form vacancies in a lattice that may be eliminated through densification.

Text:
Particularly at 
surfaces, oxygen vacancies may be eliminated from the lattice through densification11,18,19, a 
process which also results in TM reduction.
