Description:
Used in developing alloys with physiologically present elements like Zinc and Calcium for bioimplants.

Text:
Similar toxic responses were reported in the past for Li 6 
and Co7. Therefore, developing Mg alloys with physiologically present elements like Zinc 
(Zn) and Calcium (Ca), as bioimplants could be a desirable solution8. Several studies proposed Al and Rare Earth elements free Mg alloys like MgCa9 and Mg
Zn10. The addition of Ca enhances ductility, while zinc improves corrosion resistance. The 
combination of these elements, calcium, and zinc, has been observed to refine grain 
structure and enhance mechanical properties11. Similarly, the addition of other elements like 
Mn and Si can result in mechanically improved alloy system although they have not 
undergone evaluations for cytotoxicity12.


---

Description:
A matrix material that can be microalloyed with Zn and Ca to improve mechanical properties.

Text:
However, the alloying concentration of Zn and Ca 
along with the ZnCa atomic ratio influence significantly to the corrosion resistance and 
mechanical properties of the alloy system13,14. Based on previous reports, if the 
concentration of Zn  2 wt and concentration of Ca  1wt, extensive formation of 
secondary precipitates like Ca2Mg6Zn3 and Mg2Ca was observed1517. An ideal biomaterial 
should be devoid of any kind of secondary phases or precipitates18 to prevent the galvanic 
coupling between the precipitates and the Mg matrix19,20. Microalloying of Zn and Ca into Mg matrix in a trace amount (i.e., 1wt) could be an 
effective way to improve the mechanical properties with reduced secondary phases21.


---

Description:
A base material for alloys whose corrosion behaviour is enhanced by Zn and Ca.

Text:
Elemental addition of both Zn and Ca is more effective in altering the microstructure and 
mechanical properties of Mg alloys as compared to their individual addition in trace 
amounts2224. These alloying elements enhance the corrosion behaviour of Mg but 
evaluating the influence of these corrosion products on cellular activity is an important step 
toward the acceptance of Mgbased materials for biomedical orthopaedic applications. httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024x98j9 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000268319080 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
