Description:
Converted into ammonia through the Haber-Bosch process requiring high temperature and pressure.

Text:
Ammonia (NH3) is one of the most produced chemicals in the
world, with over 150 million metric tons being produced each year.1
It is essential for the manufacturing of fertilizer needed to feed the
growing world population.2,3 NH3 is also a potential carbonfree
energy carrier, capable of storing surplus energy from renewable
energy sources, a possible hydrogen carrier, and fuel.416
The HaberBosch process is by far the most prevalent method for
converting nitrogen (N2) into ammonia, but requires high temper
ature (400650C) and pressure (200400atm) for industrial
scale production of NH3.2,3,17,18 Finding a catalyst capable of
producing ammonia more efficiently, or under more ambient con
ditions, would be a major boon for the worlds population and cli
mate, and could potentially even allow for decentralized, smaller
scale production of fertilizer close to the point of use, reducing
transportation costs and the need for distribution infrastructure.19
The N2 molecule is especially inert, with a very stable triple
bond, no dipole moment and very low polarizability.4 The N2
dissociation to 2N is therefore often the ratelimiting step (RLS)
in the chemical synthesis of NH3 from nitrogen via the dissocia
tive pathway (see Fig.


---

Description:
Requires a very reactive catalyst material and high temperature for activation in the nitrogen reduction reaction (N2RR).

Text:
1 for reaction scheme).5,6,2029 Hence, the
a O. Christensen, A. Hutu, Dr. H. Kristoffersen, Prof. J. Ross
meisl
Center for High Entropy Alloy Catalysis(CHEAC), Department
of Chemistry,University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 5,
2100, Copenhagen (Denmark)
Email jan.rossmeislchem.ku.dk
main challenge for the nitrogen reduction reaction (N2RR) is to
more easily activate nitrogen. The current industrial catalyst for
HaberBosch is Febased. To activate nitrogen requires a very re
active catalyst material and high temperature. This in turn requires
high pressure, so the adsorbates stick to the surface long enough
to react. However, the use of such highly reactive catalyst sur
faces makes desorption of the products more difficult, leading to
a compromise between the efficiency of the activation and desorp
tion step of the N2RR process.


---

Description:
Involved in electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction reactions.

Text:
HEAs have been shown to hold great potential for catalyst dis
covery,3037,4150 having been investigated for many different re
actions,48,5163 including electrocatalytic nitrogen reduction.6466
However, previous investigations for N2RR on HEAs have either
been experimental or have not calculated the dissociation barriers
for the reaction. Knowing the activation energy is of utmost impor
tance for properly evaluating activity compared to stateoftheart
catalysts like Fe and Ru. The aim of this paper is to investigate highentropy alloys as a
discovery platform for N2RR catalysts using theory and simula
tions.
