Description:
Complex, C(sp3)-rich compounds explored for improved physicochemical properties.

Text:
Nitrogencontaining moieties, specifically aryl and heteroaryl amines (e.g. 1), are 
omnipresent in stateoftheart highthroughput screening (HTS) libraries and bioactive 
molecules1. The synthetic ease of forming the CN bond with ubiquitous aromatic coupling 
partners2 has greatly facilitated their prevalence. Recent advancements in medicinal chemistry 
have shifted focus towards compounds with high fraction of C(sp3)rich, as they exhibit improved 
physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties (Figure 1A). This has led to an exploration of 
methods to access threedimensional chemical spaces3, 4, including novel methods to make caged 
hydrocarbons, such as bicyclopentanes5 and cubanes6. Despite these advancements, efficient 
methods to access complex, C(sp3)rich amines (e.g.


---

Description:
Compounds that can undergo N-alkylation and are synthesized through imine addition.

Text:
24) remain rare.7 Conventional two
component methods for their synthesis include transition metalcatalyzed CN crosscoupling 
reaction 7, reductive amination of aldehydes or ketones8, Nalkylation of amines9, and imine 
addition10,11 (Figure 1B). While these methods offer access to simple alkyl amines, they pose 
challenges in rapidly synthesizing more complex aliphatic amines and constructing amine libraries 
for structure activity relationship (SAR) studies12. In recent decades, the versatility of imines has 
led to a significant progress in the development of multicomponent reactions as flexible routes to 
amine synthesis13, 14, such as azaMoritaBaylisHillman15, Mannich16, Petasis boronMannich 
(PBM)17 and Strecker18 reacion.


---

Description:
Building blocks used in the three-component PBM reaction to access diverse C(sp2)rich chemical space.

Text:
Among these, the threecomponent PBM reaction, first reported 
in 1993 19, has been an attractive method for medicinal chemists due to its ability to use widely 
available building blocks including amines, aldehydes, and aromatic boronic acids to rapidly 
access diverse C(sp2)rich chemical space17. However, PBM reaction remained underutilized 
because the substrate scope has been mainly restricted to activated aldehydes with adjacent 
heteroatoms as directing groups and aryl or alkenyl boronic acids. As most reactions of this class 
are mediated by a 2e mechanism where alkyl migration is unlikely to happen20, extending this 
reactivity to unactivated alkyl boronates, to escaping from the flatland 3, has been a challenge.
