Description:
Established as a stable support to avoid degradation in catalytic applications.

Text:
However, the low dissolution 
stability of the alloying elements is a concern considering both catalyst durability and membrane poisoning.17 Using support materials for 
iridium catalysts instead can introduce a high dispersion of the iridium phase, thus increasing the amount of reaction sites. However, the 
electrical connection of the iridium sites must be ensured to render them active for the OER. To achieve this, several conductive supports 
have been tested, for example antimonydoped tin oxide (ATO)18 and tantalumdoped TiO219 showing high conductivity. But once more, the 
dissolution stability of these materials is questionable; illustratively, a high antimony dissolution from ATO has been shown in threeelectrode 
electrochemical tests.20 
To avoid support degradation, TiO2 is established as a stable support, both in academic research13,2125 and industry.


---

Description:
Regarded as an insulator due to its low electrical conductivity.

Text:
Nevertheless, the 
electrical conductivity of TiO2 is so low that it is regarded as insulator for the application in PEMWE.22 Therefore, the conductivity of TiO2
supported iridium catalysts must be ensured solely by the iridium phase. To guarantee a percolating pathway from particle to particle, a 
coreshell structure is usually aimed for.13,21,2426 
Here, a delicate balance must be found between reducing the iridium content on the one hand and achieving sufficient conductivity on the 
other hand. Generally, to ultimately decrease the iridium content, an iridium shell as thin as possible is desirable, which, however, reduces 
the electric conductivity.


---

Description:
A semiconducting particle used in photodeposition synthesis.

Text:
Additionally, choosing support particles with a low specific surface area can decrease the required amount of 
iridium, because less surface needs to be covered for a closed shell, as pointed out by Bernt et al.13 
In this regard, photodeposition is a suitable method to produce coreshell particles. During photodeposition synthesis, a mixture of 
semiconducting particles (e.g., TiO2) and metal ions (e.g., IrX) is exposed to electromagnetic radiation with an energy exceeding the band 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024kld98 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000289278214 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
