Description:
The origin of the word aromaticity that conforms perfectly to the Hückel's (4n + 2) electrons rule.

Text:
The aromaticity of cyclic molecules is one of the most frequently mentioned 
properties in modern organic chemistry, and numerous studies have long been 
conducted on it.1,2 Aromaticity is not a property that can be observed experimentally, 
and there is no strict physical definition.3 Chemists commonly explore molecular 
aromaticity through a variety of indicators proposed based on different physical ideas 
or empirical rules. Electron counting rules were first used to assign aromaticity 
character in  conjugated systems, the most important being Hckels rule which 
suggests that planar molecules with (4n  2)4n electrons are aromaticantiaromatic. Benzene (C6H6) is the origin of the word aromaticity that conforms perfectly to the 
Hckels (4n  2) electrons rule.


---

Description:
An aromatic hydrocarbon with a ring structure and 6 electrons.

Text:
B and N are elements in the periodic table adjacent to C. The substitution of each 
two C atoms in benzene by a pair of B and N atoms obtains an isoelectronic analogue 
of benzene. These isoelectronic molecules have the same 6 electrons as benzene, 
suggesting that, according to the Hckels rule, they should all be aromatic. However, 
the fact is not so simple. As early as 1926, Stock et al.4 succeeded in experimentally synthesizing an 
isoelectronic species of benzene, B3N3H6, named borazine and popularly known as 
inorganic benzene, which is formally a product of the complete substitution of the CC 
unit of benzene by BN, as shown in Scheme 1.


---

Description:
Investigated for aromaticity through introduction of heteroatoms.

Text:
Inspired by this synthesis experiment, 
extensive research has been conducted on the aromaticity of borazine, but the 
conclusions are inconsistent. For examples, Iwaki and Udagawa5 investigated the effect 
of the introduction of heteroatoms into the benzene on the aromaticity through index of 
deviation from aromaticity (IDA),6 nucleusindependent chemical shift (NICS),7 and 
harmonic oscillator model of aromaticity (HOMA)8 methods, and the borazine is 
accordingly proposed to be antiaromatic, nonaromatic, and aromatic, respectively; 
Schleyer et al.,9 after calculating the NICS values separated into the NICS() and 
NICS() contributions, stated that the borazine is not aromatic due to the strong polarity 
of BN bond, similar to the conclusion drawn by Jemmis et al.10 through magnetic 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024g3x14v2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000270791907 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
