Description:
A solvent used in predicting pKa values for CH bonds using computational methods.

Text:
Grzybowski and coworkers recently addressed this gap by predicting pKa values for CH
bonds in dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) using a Graph Convolutional Neural Network (GCNN).3
Using a mix of experimental and computationally computed pKa data, they achieve a mean
absolute error (MAE) of 2.1 pKa units. Lee and coworkers also address this problem by
creating a general machine learning (ML) model using either a neural network or XGBoost. They train on experimental pKa values in 39 solvents from the Internet Bondenergy Data
bank (iBonD). Hereafter, they can predict the lowest pKa value for a wide range of molecules
that contain bonds such as NH, OH, CH, SH, PH.


---

Description:
A solvent used in the analysis of nonaqueous pKa values.

Text:
However, during their analysis, they
report a scarcity of nonaqueous pKa values and achieve an MAE of 1.5 pKa units for the
solvent DMSO using XGBoost.4,5 Unfortunately, neither the Grzybowski group nor the Lee
group has made their models generally available to other users. Inspired by the efforts of the Grzybowski group and Lee group, we have developed pKalcu
lator; a quantum chemical (QM)based workflow for the automatic computation of CH pKa
values. The computed CH pKa values are then used to generate training data for an ML
model using LightGBM.6 The QMbased workflow and the ML model are freely available
under the MIT license.


---

Description:
A solvent used for measuring experimental pKa values.

Text:
Methods
Datasets
We compile a dataset of 732 experimental pKa values in DMSO from two different sources,
Bordwell7 and iBonD.4 The Bordwell dataset contains experimental CH pKa values in
DMSO from 419 molecules. For the iBonD database, we select experimental CH pKa
values in DMSO for 313 molecules. As the iBonD database only contains an image of
each molecule, we employ the tool Deep Learning for Chemical Image Recognition software
(DECIMER v. 2.0), developed by Rajan et al..810 While DECIMER converts molecular
images into SMILES, manual intervention is required to ensure the SMILES string correctly
represents the molecule.
