Description:
A promising anode material with a high theoretical specific capacity of 4200 mAh/g for Li22Si5.

Text:
Lithiumion batteries have become a norm for energy storage these days. Many advances
to increase their efficiency have been proposed. In the realm of material science, electrode,
electrolyte, and separator are interesting design elements. Specifically focusing on anodes,
several materials are being explored such as graphitic materials, metals, metal oxides, and
metal phosphide.1 A key material explored is silicon. The obvious reason for silicon being
a promising candidate is its high theoretical specific capacity (4200 mAhg for Li22Si5 2)
compared to the current graphite anode (372 mAhg3). Furthermore, silicon is the second
most abundant element in the earths crust, making it a readily available material.


---

Description:
Used in anodes that experience capacity loss due to volumetric changes during cycling.

Text:
However,
its practical implementation is limited by a main bottleneck, the huge volumetric expansion
after lithiation (310 for Li22Si5 4) which causes a large buildup of stress, resulting in the
pulverization of the material and immediate capacity loss during cycling.59 An example is
the loss of 70 of the capacity of silicon anode made from 10 m silicon powder within the
first five cycles.10 There has been a surge in research output to tackle this bottleneck over
the past decade.11 Specifically, one focus of research is on using micronano sized particle
silicon anodes as they have been shown to resist cracking and accommodate the volumetric
change.1113 However, the improvement is still not sufficient for practical application.


---

Description:
Undergoes volume expansion upon lithiation, creating mechanical stress due to strong covalent bonds.

Text:
Other
cutting edge research concentrates on modifying the anode by the formation of alloys,1416
composites,1719 coreshell structures,20,21 films22,23 and porous systems.24,25
On the fundamental aspect, unavoidable volume expansion in each crystalline grain of
silicon upon lithiation creates important mechanical stress in the material, responsible for
rupture. A major mechanism to relieve this stress would be to allow facile sliding at the
grain boundaries.26,27 Previous experimental observations of GB sliding have been predomi
nantly limited to metallic materials such as Al, Cu, Sn, Zn, and Mg.2832 To our knowledge,
there has been no work in the literature for GB sliding in silicon. This comes from the fact
that silicon has strong covalent bonds, which may render GB sliding highly activated and
inoperative at near ambient temperature.
