Description:
The basic molecular unit of diamondoids with the formula C10H16.

Text:
Diamondoids are the carbon cage molecular species which attract attention of re
searchers in various fields such as interstellar chemistry 1, nanotechnology 2, and
medicinal chemistry 3. The basic molecular unit of these is adamantane (Ada,
C10H16) 4. Ada and higher neutral diamondoids (diamantane, triamantane, etc.) as well as derivatives thereof have been extensively studied over decades, in particular
with regard to their vibrational, electronic, and optical properties 515. In astrochemistry, the openshell (radical) cations of diamondoids are of special
interest as they absorb lower energy photons in comparison to their neutral coun
terparts and may potentially be formed in interstellar medium by ionization with
photons andor cosmic rays 16. Thus, several recent studies have targeted the
optical spectra of radical cations of diamondoids 1619.


---

Description:
Has nitrogen-containing derivatives that have received attention.

Text:
Specifically, the optical
spectrum of Ada has been obtained by electronic photodissociation (EPD) spec
troscopy by Crandall et al. 17 and heliumtagged electronic spectroscopy by Kappe
et al. 18. In addition, the EPD study by Crandall et al. 17 has provided insight
into photoinduced fragmentation of Ada. The optical spectrum of the diamantane
cation, Dia, has also been recently reported by the same group 19. Besides the cations of pristine diamondoids consisting only of carbon and hy
drogen, cations of nitrogencontaining adamantane derivates have received attention
lately 16, 20. In the context of astrochemistry, the interest stems from recent de
tection of aromatic nitriles in the interstellar medium 2123.


---

Description:
A cage structure that can be opened by substituting a hydrogen atom with an NH2 group.

Text:
Recently, the EPD
optical spectrum and fragmentation pathways of the cyanoadamantane cation (Ada
CN) were reported by Crandall et al. 16. Another nitrogencontaining derivate
cation which has gained interest is the amantadine cation (Ama or AdaNH
2 ),
which has been studied by infrared photodissociation (IRPD) spectroscopy by the
group of Dopfer 20,24. It was found that substitution of a hydrogen atom (of the
adamantane cage) with the NH2 group greatly facilitates opening of the adamantane
cage 20,24. The optical spectrum of Ama has not been reported so far though. We
also note that an IRPD spectrum for AdaCN was presented by the same group 25.
