Description:
An element that forms allotropes such as squaroglitter with sp2 and sp3 hybridized carbon, contributing to electrical conductivity.

Text:
A protocol 
for these calculations is described in the following section. In terms of symmetry, new predicted 
phases can be analyzed for topology using the online program TopCryst 6. In 2013, Prasad et al. 7 reported a new hypothetical carbon allotrope called squaroglitter with C8 
stoichiometry. The designation as glitter is due to the presence of sp2 carbon (in addition to the 
tetrahedral sp3 carbon) in the structure, which shows similarity to the previously announced C6 
glitter 8. Both carbon allotropes are electrically conductive due to the presence of sp2 carbon. C8 
squaroglitter belongs to the chromium boride (crb) topology, which is a large family of carbon 
allotropes presented in the SACADA database 9.


---

Description:
Forms sp3 hybridized bonds in a structure with edge-sharing tetrahedra.

Text:
The crb topology archetype is identified as 
SACADA ID 60; the structure is shown in Fig. 1a. The polyhedral representation on the right shows 
a characteristic central square of sp3 carbons bonded to form 22 edgesharing tetrahedra that are 
cornersharing along the caxis. The crystal structure belongs to space group I4mmm (No. 139) 
(Table 1a), with all eight carbon atoms occupying a single Wyckoff position, namely (8h). In this context of special tetrahedral structural features, we were interested in proposing binary 
systems with edge and cornersharing tetrahedra. For this purpose, the crystal symmetry was 
redefined in a primitive space group P42mnm (No. 136) with two 4fold Wyckoff positions, which 
is also identified with the crb topology. Fig.


---

Description:
Forms alternating sites in a structure with specific interatomic distances and cell volume.

Text:
1b displays the two alternating carbon sites, 
represented by brown and white spheres, with the structural parameters provided in Table 1b, which 
shows the same interatomic distances and cell volume (cf. Table 1a) during the transformation from 
C8 to (C1)4(C2)4. Very recently, we have ab initio predicted superdense hexagonal boron pnictides BX (X  N, P, As, 
Sb, Bi) with quartz (qtz) topology 1012. In the present work, we used the (C1)4(C2)4 template 
structure to predict and investigate within DFT a new family of tetragonal equiatomic boron 
pnictides BX with crb topology that exhibit only BX bonds, avoiding energetically unfavorable 
BB or XX bonds. Fig. 1d displays the square B2X2 motif that characterizes these structures, 
along with the resulting edge and cornersharing BX4 tetrahedra.
