Description:
A sp2 hybridized element forming the lattice structure of carbon nanotubes.

Text:
Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are a onedimensional (1D) allotrope of carbon, made up of a sp2 
hybridized carbon lattice in the form of a cylinder. A singlewall CNT (SWCNT), the simplest 
version of a CNT, consists of a single, cylindrical graphene tube. In doublewall CNTs (DWCNTs) 
and multiwall CNTs (MWCNTs), two or more tubes are either nested concentrically or wrapped 
like a scroll.


---

Description:
Forms various allotropes including fullerenes, graphene, and graphite.

Text:
SWCNTs are typically 0.42 nm in diameter, while MWCNTs can be much larger, with 
diameters of tens of nanometers, having both ends generally capped by fullerenelike domes.1 
Similar to fullerenes and graphene, which are the analogous 0 and 2D allotropes of carbon, the 
graphitelike arrangement of carbon atoms in CNTs and their shape give them remarkable and 
unique properties, which has resulted in the widespread use of CNTs in several fields of science 
and technology, including energy storage, electronics, structural composites, biomaterials, and 
others.


---

Description:
Used as an anode material in the synthesis of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) via arc-discharge evaporation.

Text:
The content of the following sections is based on the results of this 
analysis, in combination with substances, concepts, and other information indexed in the CAS 
Content Collection. For a more detailed description of this process, please see the Methods 
section in the Supplementary Information. HISTORY AND GENERAL TRENDS IN CNT PUBLICATIONS 
The current era of CNT research began in 1991 when Sumio Iijima of Nippon Electrical 
Corporations (NEC) Fundamental Research Laboratory in Tsukuba, Japan, synthesized 
MWCNTs using arcdischarge evaporation from a carbon anode and characterized them with 
transmission electron microscopy.9 Subsequent research by groups at NEC and International 
Business Machines Corporation (IBM) in 1993 produced SWCNTs10, 11 by incorporating a metal 
catalyst into the cathode.
