Description:
Used in aprotic liquid lithium ion electrolytes for batteries.

Text:
Technology in the modern world necessitates longlived, high charge capacity batteries for applications 
from automobiles to pacemakers. New developments in personalized electronic devices and robotics 
additionally demand fast charging and discharging, safe operation, and pliable geometries.1,2 In many of 
these applications, the prevailing batteries utilize aprotic liquid lithium ion electrolytes composed of 
lithium salts dissolved in a mixture of organic carbonate solvents.


---

Description:
A metal that exhibits significant reactivity with volatile organic compounds in electrolyte liquids.

Text:
The electrolyte liquids are volatile 
organic compounds; the solvent combustion during a failure event can lead to thermal runaway and 
explosion, and these compounds can exhibit significant reactivity with lithium metal which limits their 
use in beyondlithiumion battery designs employing lithium metal anodes.3 Also, both Li and the 
counteranion are mobile in the conventional liquid electrolytes and the lithium transference number is 
low, resulting in performance which is limited by internal impedance from anion polarization and side
reaction of the anions on the electrodes. Alternative electrolytes with lower flammability and lithium transference numbers near unity (socalled 
singleion conductors) are being researched worldwide.


---

Description:
The cation in amphiphilic lithium salts that may serve as a model system for single-ion conducting polymer electrolytes with liquid crystalline character.

Text:
In this study, we investigate the potential of amphiphilic lithium salts as singlecomponent, solventfree 
electrolytes. We hypothesized that these amphiphilic lithium salts may serve as a model system and 
smallmolecule analogs of singleion conducting polymer electrolytes with liquid crystalline (LC) 
character recently reported where the ions exist in dense ionic domains with longrange periodic 
arrangement but there is a lack of atomicscale crystalline order in either the polymer repeat segments or 
ion clusters.20,24,25 The chemical environment of the lithium cation in the pure amphiphilic lithium salt and 
the corresponding ionomer with segregated ionic phases may be similar. Amphiphilic salts are known to 
support thermotropic liquid crystalline phases with longrange order.2733 In a pure salt or single
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2022crzzqv2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000342936328 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
