Description:
A photoswitch integrated into surfactants for light responsiveness.

Text:
To produce light 
responsive surfactants, photoswitches such as azobenzenes11, diarylethenes12 or spiropyranes13, 
are integrated to hydrophilic head and hydrophobic tail of the surfactant. Azobenzene based 
Arylazopyrazole(AAP) surfactants which can be subjected to EZ photoisomerization depending 
on wavelength of light, are designed to increase disinfectant performance14, manipulate wetting15 
or assemble supramolecules16. Simulations become more and more powerful to perform systematic investigations at different 
length and time scales and can extract information about underlying mechanisms. Coarse grained 
simulation can be performed for longer times scales to capture adsorptiondesorption dynamics17 
or micelle formation18 of surfactants but due to the reduced degrees of freedom, some atomistic 
details disappear during the coarse graining process. Moreover, quantumbased calculations can 
be conducted to capture the system dynamics on a highly accurate level.


---

Description:
Compounds modeled with various force fields to capture thermomechanical features.

Text:
However, due to 
computational burden, this type of modelling can be applied only to small systems. Here we choose 
molecular dynamics (MD) simulations as a timeefficient but still sufficiently accurate method to 
capture atomistic insights. Various studies have investigated interfacial dynamics of commonly used surfactant molecules 
such as sodium dodecylsulfate (SDS), alkyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) via MD 
simulations 1921. Azobenzene based compounds have been modelled with various force fields. A 
polymer consistent forcefield (PCFF) has been employed to capture thermomechanical features 
of azobenzenes22 and to investigate structural changes of azo based monolayers23. OPLS 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024q2rft ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000325920287 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
