Description:
A chemical group added to phosphates in lipid A, contributing to polymyxin resistance.

Text:
Such modifications most commonly involve addition of phosphoethanolamine 
(PEtN) (Scheme 1A) or 4amino4deoxyLarabinose (LAra4N) to the 1 or 4 phosphates8. Lipid A phosphoethanolamine transferases are widely distributed in Gramnegative bacteria, and are 
constitutively expressed in some species, including Neisseria meningitidis9 and Moraxella catarrhalis10, 
that in consequence are intrinsically polymyxinresistant. In others, including Acinetobacter 
baumannii11, acquired polymyxin resistance can arise from upregulation of chromosomal PEtN 
transferases, but in E. coli this has remained rare. In 2015 however, a plasmidborne polymyxin 
resistance determinant, the Mobile Colistin Resistance (MCR)1 PEtN transferase, was identified in 
China in an E. coli isolate of porcine origin12, since when multiple MCR isoforms have been discovered 
in multiple species worldwide13. In E. coli MCR production remains the dominant polymyxin resistance 
mechanism.


---

Description:
Involved in the transfer process from a phosphatidyl ethanolamine donor to the lipid A acceptor substrate.

Text:
Phosphoethanolamine transferases, including MCR, are enzymes of the Gramnegative inner 
membrane that consist a soluble periplasmic catalytic and a transmembrane domain14 (Figure 1). The 
catalytic domain has been the subject of relatively extensive biochemical study1517 and contains a zinc 
site (Zn1, comprised of three conserved amino acids, Glu246, Asp 465 and His466) adjacent to the 
threonine residue (Thr285) that is the likely site of formation of the covalent phosphointermediate 
formed when PEtN is transferred from a phosphatidyl ethanolamine donor to the lipid A acceptor 
substrate (Scheme 1). Two additional conserved gating histidine residues (His395 and His478) are 
observed in some structures15 to bind a second zinc equivalent (Zn2), but the physiological and 
mechanistic significance of this site remains unclear.
