Description:
Antibiotics that disrupt the Gram-negative envelope by interacting with lipopolysaccharide.

Text:
Polymyxin antibiotics, specifically colistin, are agents of last resort for treating infections by these 
species4 and, despite toxicity concerns5, their use has increased in recent years6. Polymyxins disrupt 
the Gramnegative envelope by a sequential process that remains incompletely understood7 initial 
interaction with outer membrane lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is followed by uptake into the bacterial 
periplasm and effects upon the inner membrane that may include interference with LPS before or 
during trafficking to the outer membrane andor direct permeabilization. In consequence, 
modifications to LPS that disrupt polymyxin interactions are determinants of polymyxin resistance; 
specifically, these reduce negative charges on the lipid A disaccharide by covalent modification of 
phosphate groups, thereby preventing electrostatic interactions with cationic components of the 
polymyxin peptide.


---

Description:
An antibiotic to which resistance can be conferred by the addition of phosphoethanolamine or 4amino4deoxylarabinose to lipid A.

Text:
Such modifications most commonly involve addition of phosphoethanolamine 
(PEtN) (Scheme 1A) or 4amino4deoxyLarabinose (LAra4N) to the 1 or 4 phosphates8. Lipid A phosphoethanolamine transferases are widely distributed in Gramnegative bacteria, and are 
constitutively expressed in some species, including Neisseria meningitidis9 and Moraxella catarrhalis10, 
that in consequence are intrinsically polymyxinresistant. In others, including Acinetobacter 
baumannii11, acquired polymyxin resistance can arise from upregulation of chromosomal PEtN 
transferases, but in E. coli this has remained rare. In 2015 however, a plasmidborne polymyxin 
resistance determinant, the Mobile Colistin Resistance (MCR)1 PEtN transferase, was identified in 
China in an E. coli isolate of porcine origin12, since when multiple MCR isoforms have been discovered 
in multiple species worldwide13. In E. coli MCR production remains the dominant polymyxin resistance 
mechanism.
