Description:
Coupled with alkynes in transition metal-catalyzed annulations to form pyridines.

Text:
Transition metalcatalyzed intra
molecular 222 annulations13 by coupling two alkynes with ni
triles, which take advantage of using tethered diynes (Scheme 1B) to 
reduce the entropic penalty have been proven as an effective route 
to pyridines.14 Since the pioneering work of Wakatsuki and Yama
zaki on CpCo(I)catalyzed reactions,15 this cycloaddition has been 
extensively explored with the aid of various transition metal cata
lysts, including cobalt,16 nickel,17 iron,18 ruthenium,19 rhodium,20 and 
iridium,21 in addition to stoichiometric variants using exogenous 
metal additives. Relevant to this work, the intramolecular cyclization 
of two different alkynes could be achieved as well by tethering either 
the two alkynes or one alkyne with the nitrile moiety17b,18,20,21a,22 (Fig
ure 1B), thus allowing to control chemoselectivity.


---

Description:
Participate in three-component cross-annulation with two different alkynes to synthesize pyridine scaffolds.

Text:
Intermolecular transition metalcatalyzed cycloadditions between ni
triles and alkynes also represent a straightforward but less explored 
atomeconomical approach for synthesizing multisubstituted pyri
dines (Figure 1B).23 However, following this strategy, only the cou
pling of two identical alkynes is possible. To the best of our 
knowledge, the intermolecular coupling between two different al
kynes and a nitrile was only accomplished in a stepwise fashion using 
stoichiometric amounts of Cp2ZrEt2 and NiCl2(PPh3)2 by Takahasi 
and coworkers24a or using titanium alkoxide by Sato and cowork
ers.24b 
Thus, a catalytic strategy to realize a threecomponent crossannula
tion of two different alkynes with nitriles would consist of a valuable 
expansion of the current state of the art, allowing the synthesis of di
verse pyridine scaffolds.


---

Description:
Compounds used in photocatalytic cyclization with aromatic alkynes to synthesize pyridine rings.

Text:
Recent discoveries and upsurge of research in the photo and elec
trochemistry domain offer an alternative to classical metalmediated 
reaction conditions to construct pyridine rings. Wang, Meng, and 
coworkers reported a photocatalytic 222 cyclization of 
aromatic alkynes with nitriles for the synthesis of 2,3,6
trisubstituted pyridines using a pyrylium salt as the photoredox 
catalyst (Figure 1C)25 that was able to overcome the high oxidation 
potentials of alkynes being the major challenge in this type of 
transformation. Electrochemistry has the advantage of employing 
electrons as traceless redox reagents for activating common and inert 
organic molecules, particularly alkynes,26 for generating highly reac
tive intermediates.


---

Description:
Participate in intermolecular cyclization with alkynes to provide 2,3,6trisubstituted pyridines.

Text:
Recently, electrochemical transformations have 
undergone a renaissance,27 and in the context of this study, 222 
electrochemical homo cyclotrimerizations of alkynes to arenes have 
been explored recently (Figure 1D).28 We demonstrate here an in
termolecular cyclization strategy of alkynes and nitriles providing 
2,3,6trisubstituted pyridines via constantcurrent electrolysis using 
the combination of a catalytic amount of triphenylamine (TPA) and 
benzoic acid as a redox shuttle which obliviates the use of metals and 
other external additives (Figure 1E). The crosscyclization of two 
different alkynes is especially possible, being to the best of our 
knowledge, unprecedented. Moreover, a competitive alkyne 
222 cyclotrimerization is not observed. TPA
EoA
R
C
N
