Description:
Derived from various carbon sources such as CO2, biomass, and biogas.

Text:
The utilisation of alternative feedstocks for everyday chemicals is
of key industrial importance as we move towards net zero and
beyond. Methanol derived from various carbon sources, such as
CO2, biomass, and biogas, is already of considerable economic
interest.1 The methanoltohydrocarbon (MTH) process is poised
to offer a pathway to numerous commercially and industrially
significant chemicals. The first step in the MTH process, the de
hydration of methanol to dimethyl ether (DME), is of particular
interest as DME is an important solvent and the starting material
for many other products.


---

Description:
Involved in the methanol to DME reaction promoted by zeolites.

Text:
The methanol to DME reaction is promoted by the unique
porous structure of zeolites, this provides a confinement effect
that leads to transition state stabilisation.26 This work focuses
on the MFI framework type structure (commonly known as ZSM
5), shown in fig. 1. This framework has orthorhombic symmetry
(Pnma) within a large range of operating temperatures, and is
composed of straight parallel pores (fig. 1a) intersected by sinu
soidal pores (fig. 1b). These ordered pores provide large inter
a Centre for Computational Chemistry, School of Chemistry, University of Bristol, Bris
tol, BS8 1TS, UK. b European Spallation Source, Ole Maales vej 3, 2200 Kbenhavn N, DK. c Diamond Light Source, Harwell Campus, Didcot, OX11 0DE, UK.


---

Description:
A reactant in the formation of DME, influenced by carbonyl compounds and esters.

Text:
Addition of organic carbonyl compounds fur
ther promotes the methanol to DME reaction allowing for use
of milder reaction conditions; this reduces the risk of catalyst
deactivation and side reactions in the hydrocarbon pool mech
anism.7 The aliphatic esters and aromatic aldehydes investigated
here have shown significant promotional effects (increasing cat
alytic activity by well over an order of magnitude) down to con
centrations as low as 1 ppm in methanol.79
Our previous work employed a set of multilevel quantum cal
culations to investigate the action of aliphatic ester promoters in
DME formation from methanol dehydration within HZSM5.10
Our results showed how the promoters provide a more favourable
route to DME formation. The promoters adsorption to the reac
tion site is one crucial factor.
