Description:
A transition metal that can self-assemble into polynuclear metaloxo clusters.

Text:
In the chemistry of transition metals, three elements stand out distinctly tungsten (W), molybdenum 
(Mo), and vanadium (V). Located in group 6 in the periodic table, under the right conditions, they can 
selfassemble into polynuclear metaloxo clusters, or polyoxometalates (POMs), comprised of early 
transitionmetals (addenda) and oxide atoms.12 In POMs, the transition metals, V, Mo and W are fully 
oxidized to d0 and form diverse structures with MOx as the principal building block. 35 Those poly
oxo clusters are formed from the acidification of aqueous transition metals salts.6, 7 POMs are typically 
formed by transition metals in group 6, but can be formed by transition metals in groups 3 through 12 
of the periodic table.


---

Description:
A common transition metal used as a building block in polyoxometalates.

Text:
These metals often have multiple oxidation states, which allows them to form 
complex structures with oxygen atoms. The big three are tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), and 
vanadium (V), that together with niobium (Nb), tantalum (Ta), and chromium (Cr), are the most 
common POM transition metals buildingblocks. POM chemists have classified the clusters into two 
big groups that involve the presence or absence of heteroatom isopolyoxometalates (or isopolyanions, 
IPAs) have the formula MnOx q, and heteropolyoxometalates (or heteropolyanions, HPAs) with the 
formula XnMnOx q being XP, Si, Ge, As, Se, Te, etc. Classic structures of polyoxometalates, such 
as the Keggin type (typically XM12O40n) and the WellsDawson type (typically X2M18O62n), are 
characterized by their highly symmetrical clusters which exhibit remarkable versatility in terms of 
composition, shape, and potential applications.


---

Description:
Clusters are structurally robust in the POM family and can form lacunary clusters through partial hydrolysis.

Text:
As a rule of thumb, tungsten clusters are the most 
structurally robust in the POM family; hence, partial hydrolysis of tungsten derived polyoxo clusters, 
achieved through the controlled addition of base produces lacunary clusters.8 This straightforward 
synthetic method forms one or several metal voids in the structure of the POM molecule. The defective 
region, named lacuna, can react with other transitionmetal cations forming a new structure, for example 
MMnIII, CoIII, FeIII, TiIV, NiII, CrIII and ZrIV, amongst others. Monotransitionmetalsubstituted 
polyoxotungstates, explored in this work have the formula M(L)XW11O39q (X  P(V) or Si(IV), L  
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024kfdkg ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000277187227 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
