Description:
A porous substrate used in studies of AlN surface chemistry.

Text:
ALD of AlN has garnered 
significant attention for applications demanding robust protective layers, such as the 
development of corrosionresistant, insulating and protective coatings.7 
ALD is based on sequential, selflimiting surface chemical reactions, enabled by carefully tuned 
deposition chemistry and an alternating precursor supply onto the substrate. This leads to the 
hallmark of ALD conformal deposition on topologically complex surfaces. The alternating 
surface chemistry also facilitates studies of the surface chemistry and reaction mechanisms as the 
surface is only exposed to one type of precursor molecule at a time. Puurunen et al.810 have 
explored the surface chemistry of AlN using trimethylaluminum (TMA) and ammonia (NH3) by 
infrared (IR) spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy on porous silica 
and alumina.


---

Description:
A substrate on which the amount of NHx groups increases with reaction cycles.

Text:
They found that the amount of hydrogen in amino (NHx) groups increased with the 
number of reaction cycles on both alumina (Al2O3) and silica (SiO2) substrates, suggesting that 
more NHx groups were formed on the Al2O3 and SiO2 surfaces as the reactions progressed. The 
interaction of TMA with dehydroxylated SiO2 involved ligand exchange with surface hydroxyl (
OH) groups and dissociation in siloxane (SiOSi) bridges, leading to surface saturation with 
methyl (CH3) groups, followed by the replacement of these CH3 groups by NHx groups upon 
reaction with NH3, indicating a stepwise transformation of the surface chemistry.


---

Description:
Reacts with TMA to generate SiCH3 groups on the surface.

Text:
Additionally, 
upon reacting with silica, TMA generated SiCH3 groups on the surface, and the subsequent 
interaction with NH3, particularly at higher temperatures, led to the removal of over 90  of the 
initial CH3 groups, which aligned with the proposed reaction pathway for this process. A recent modelling study of the surface reconstruction after the NH3 pulse in ALD of AlN, GaN 
and InN,11 suggests that, at typical ALD temperatures and pressures, the AlN surface is 
predominantly covered by NH2 species at thermal equilibrium. The surface chemistry of TMA 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024z0bgc ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000271715383 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
