Description:
Considered challenging functionalized aromatic compounds to engage in reaction paradigms.

Text:
More recently, aromatic compounds 
containing carboncarbon bonds, such as carboxylic acids, 
esters, amides, and nitriles, as well as alkanols have also be
gun to be used as aryl electrophiles.915 In spite of this pro
gress, aromatic ketones are considered to be some of the 
most challenging functionalized aromatic compounds to en
gage in this reaction paradigm.


---

Description:
Invaluable synthetic intermediates that can be converted into a diverse array of compounds through classical carbonyl transformations and transition metal-catalyzed aromatic ring CH functionalization.

Text:
Aromatic ketones are invaluable synthetic intermediates 
that can be converted into a diverse array of compounds not 
only through classical carbonyl transformations such as re
ductions, 1,2addition reactions, and arylations, but also 
via transition metalcatalyzed aromatic ring CH function
alization at the ortho position (Figure 1A).1620 In contrast, 
deacylative transformations, which employ the acyl group 
of the aromatic ketones as a leaving group to introduce var
ious functional groups on the aromatic ring at the ipso posi
tion, are infrequently reported. The development of deacyl
ative transformations that utilize aromatic ketones as ary
lating agents is significant, as it presents a novel method for 
derivatizing the aromatic ketone skeleton, further enhanc
ing its value as a synthetic intermediate.


---

Description:
Converted into oxime esters for coupling with nucleophiles.

Text:
Dong and coworkers used 2aminopyridine 
as a transient directing group to achieve a decarbonylative 
SuzukiMiyaura coupling between indanone and aromatic 
boronic acid esters, as well as ring expansion reactions in
volving the insertion of ethylene and alkynes.2931 This 
method represents an excellent technique for catalytically 
transforming ketones without directing groups; however, it 
is restricted to cyclic ketones, and only ethylene and alkynes 
can form bonds with aromatic compounds after deacylation. Dai and colleagues reported a sequential transformation 
method. This technique involves the conversion of aromatic 
ketones into oxime esters, followed by a coupling with nu
cleophiles using a Pd catalyst.


---

Description:
Undergo deacylative borylation in coupling reactions with nucleophiles.

Text:
Using this method, various 
coupling reactions with nucleophiles can be achieved, in
cluding deacylative borylation of aromatic ketones, Suzuki
Miyaura arylation, and MizorokiHeck alkenylation.3236 
However, this method requires the purification of the oxime 
ester intermediate, making the process multistep. Recently, 
the Takaya group reported a borylation reaction via 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024hd62q ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000238965882 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
