Description:
Reduces the catalytic activities of electrocatalytic and photocatalytic systems for N2O decomposition.

Text:
It is well known that N2O has a global warming potential approximately 300 times greater than that of 
CO2 on a permass basis. Additionally, N2O is a significant contributor to stratospheric ozone 
depletion.13 Emissions of N2O from industries that use fossil fuels, burn biomass, and chemical 
plants that produce nitric and adipic acids are increasing annually.4 Without global mitigation efforts, 
N2O emissions are expected to nearly double by 2050.5 Consequently, effective catalytic post
treatment technologies must be developed to treat the N2O emissions from stationary systems and 
vehicles burning transportation fuels. Various methods exist for decomposing N2O into harmless N2, such as thermal, 
electrocatalytic, and photocatalytic systems.612 Although electrocatalytic and photocatalytic systems 
can operate at ambient temperatures, their catalytic activities are reduced in the presence of O2.


---

Description:
Present during the decomposition of N2O through thermal catalysis.

Text:
Processes based on thermal catalysis can decompose N2O even in the presence of O2 through direct 
decomposition (2N2O  2N2  O2)1321 or selective catalytic reduction2228 methods but both of these 
require high temperatures, typically above 300 C. Therefore, it is essential to devise methods that 
can efficiently decompose N2O even in the presence of O2, especially at low temperatures.


---

Description:
Present in waste gases and does not inhibit the chemical absorption of CO2.

Text:
In recent years, chemical looping has been increasingly recognized as an effective technique 
for various chemical transformations, particularly those associated with CO2 utilization.29,30 For 
instance, a chemicallooping system for CO2 utilization employs CO2 adsorbents and CO2 reduction 
materials that can operate in various reactors.3133 This process can be used for CO2 transformation 
in the presence of O2 because the chemical absorption of CO2 is not inhibited by O2, and H2 as a 
reductant is not simultaneously introduced into the same reactor as O2. This is advantageous from a 
practical viewpoint because O2 is often present in waste gases containing CO2.
