Description:
Experiences substantial volume expansions during charge-discharge cycles, which can lead to particle fracture and decreased battery capacity.

Text:
Their abundance and environmental 
friendliness further augment their suitability as an alternative in battery technologies.5 
However, these materials are challenged by substantial volume expansions during 
chargedischarge cycles, exceeding 300 particularly when high ratios of silicon are used in 
the electrodes. This expansion can cause the silicon particles to fracture under mechanical 
stress, leading to a loss of contact with the current collector and a subsequent decrease in 
battery capacity.


---

Description:
Particles can be embedded within a carbon matrix to enhance performance.

Text:
Various strategies have been deployed to enhance performance, such as 
refining the nanostructures,6 embedding the silicon particles within a carbon matrix,7 
developing specifically tailored binders,8 and enhancing the electrolytes.9 In contrast, a 
sulfurized polyacrylonitrile (SPAN) was exploited by Wang at 2002,10 which employs a 
solidsolid conversion mechanism that effectively addresses the dissolution of polysulfides, 
commonly associated with the shuttle effect. Although this material has a voltage loss 
(average discharge voltage at 1.8 V) compared to the traditional sulfur cathode (average 
discharge voltage at 2.2 V), it still potentially afford a high energy density. The 
compatibility of carbonate electrolyte makes SPAN a good applicant to match graphite or 
silicon anodes.


---

Description:
Used in the anode of a novel full cell system for LiS batteries.

Text:
Addressing these limitations, our research focuses on the development of a novel full cell 
system (Figure 1a) utilizing silicon coated by triazinebased graphdiyne (TzG) at the anode 
and SPAN at the cathode to overcome the traditional barriers associated with LiS batteries. The TzGSi anode benefits from the incorporation of silicon particles into a conjugated 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20248fd43 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000265363537 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
