Description:
A photoswitch that undergoes reversible photoisomerization upon irradiation with light.

Text:
Light is a very attractive stimulus, owing 
to its high temporal and spatial resolution, as well as the 
possibility to apply it externally. Most often, photoresponse is 
achieved by switching between two isomers of a molecular 
photoswitch through a reversible photoisomerization upon 
irradiation with light of a certain wavelength.2125 A 
wellstudied example is the photoswitch azobenzene which 
has been implemented in various photoresponsive BCPs.2629 
The related arylazopyrazoles (AAPs) have not yet been 
integrated in BCPs, despite their unique photophysical 
properties.


---

Description:
A compound with high photostationary states and long thermal halflives of the metastable Z isomer.

Text:
Compared to azobenzene, AAPs show high 
photostationary states (PSS) and long thermal halflives of the 
metastable Z isomer.23,30,31 Upon irradiation with UV light, 
AAPs undergo a change in configuration to the bent Z isomer, 
which has an increased dipole moment and a lower 
hydrophobicity as compared to the linear E isomer.32 
Many photoresponsive BCPs exhibit a shape transition in 
the solid state3335 or their transitions in solution are based on 
supramolecular interactions, such as hostguest complexes.36
39 In comparison, less examples exist on the selfassembly of 
BCPs with photoresponsive blocks in solution. In one 
prominent example, Wang et al.


---

Description:
A component in copolymers that can be disassembled and reassembled by irradiation.

Text:
studied an alternating azo 
copolymer that can undergo a photoinduced deformation.40 
The amphiphilic epoxybased alternating azo copolymer can 
assemble in water into colloidal spheres which deform into 
ellipsoids under irradiation with an Ar laser at 488 nm. It has 
also been reported that assembled alternating copolymers or 
BCP structures containing azobenzene can be disassembled 
and reassembled by irradiation.28,4144 
In this study, we report AAPbearing amphiphilic BCPs 
capable of forming different assemblies in solution upon 
photoisomerization of the AAP. To this end, a library of 
different 
amphiphilic 
poly(oligo(ethylene 
glycol) 
methacrylateblockpoly(arylazopyrazole 
tetra(ethylene 
glycol) 
methacrylate) 
(POEGMAbPAAPMA) 
was 
synthesized with AAPs incorporated into the hydrophobic 
block. The configuration of the AAP can be altered by green 
light (520 nm, E isomer) and UV light (365 nm, Z isomer).
