Description:
Structures generated using the basin hopping Monte Carlo method.

Text:
Email lukas.grajciarnatur.cuni.cz
 Electronic Supplementary Information (ESI) available information on generaliza
tion tests, details on zeolite models adopted, convergence tests for basin hopping
Monte Carlo, GeGe partial radial distribution functions, correlations between sta
bility and GeOGe bond count, additional lowenergy structures, and more detailed
characterizations of the germanium distributions are provided. See DOI XXX. Ad
ditional data (neural network potentials, training database, neural network poten
tial testing data, analysis and postprocessing scripts, zeolite structures from basin
hopping Monte Carlo, etc.) are provided in the Zenodo repository at 10.5281zen
odo.11551686. Deceased. Reassembly (ADOR) process2 around ten years ago, a novel ap
proach to generate socalled unfeasible zeolites3 became avail
able.


---

Description:
Topologies that can be synthesized through the ADOR process, which are otherwise unavailable by other synthetic routes.

Text:
The process makes use of the specific (nonstatistical) dis
tribution of framework heteroatoms, generally germanium, to di
rect preferential hydrolysis of layered precursors into separate,
twodimensional intermediates, followed by targeted recondensa
tion into condensed phases4. This procedure allows for access to
zeolite topologies that are unavailable by other synthetic routes,
and indeed has led to the discovery of several new zeolite topolo
gies. From many previous studies, it has been established that
the presence of germanium has a major role in guiding zeolite
synthesis through the ADOR process5. Specifically, it is the pref
erential occupation of germanium atoms into cubic double 4ring
(D4R) sites that leads to the separability of layers, in e.g. zeolite
UTL, for which the ADOR approach has been most successful.


---

Description:
Structures that can contain Ge, Si, or both, linked to the geometric preference of various bond angles.

Text:
An elegant study by OKeefe and Yaghi6 linked the possibility to
form zeolite structures containing Ge, Si or both, to the geometric
preference of various bond angles for Ge and Si in Si8nGenO20
cubic subunits. Villaescusa et al.7 subsequently synthesised the
Journal Name, year, vol.,115  1
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024qp5bb ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000194647769 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
