Description:
A clathrate forming molecule that easily forms clathrates with a large number of guests.

Text:
Clathrates are crystalline materials consisting of a porous
framework, built up by discrete molecules, that adsorb guest
molecules in their pores (13). The framework acts as a host
for the relatively weakly bound gaseous guests. In the absence of directional interactions between molecules,
and disregarding lattice vibrations, the densest crystal struc
ture of any given composition is the most stable one (4, 5). Consequently, the empty host frameworks are generally un
stable and clathrates are rare (6, 7). Hydroquinone is one of the few widely known clathrate
forming molecules (8). It has been extensively studied both
experimentally and computationally. Hydroquinone easily
forms clathrates with a large number of guests, including
CO2 under mild pressure (9).


---

Description:
Forms clathrates that exhibit fast and reversible adsorption of hydrogen gas at room temperature.

Text:
The hydroquinone H2 clathrate
was found experimentally only after a computational study
predicted that such clathrates can form and that they may
have more than one H2 molecule in each pore (10), obviously
of great interest for gas storage applications. The computa
tional predictions have since been conrmed; the clathrate
exhibits fast and reversible adsorption of hydrogen gas at
room temperature and has double and triple occupancy of H2
at elevated pressures (11, 12). In addition, the demonstrated
separation of ethanemethane and CO2N2 gas mixtures by
hydroquinone clathrate is another example of a potential in
dustrial application (13, 14).


---

Description:
Forms clathrates with guest molecules, affecting vibrational frequencies and adsorption properties.

Text:
(29) performed lat
tice dynamics on hydroquinone clathrates with several guest
molecules and compared the computationally obtained vibra
tional frequencies to experimental data. Conventional lat
tice dynamics does however rest on an assumption that the
molecules are xed in the crystal structures and only vibrate
harmonically around their equilibrium positions, which is of
ten an adequate approximation for closepacked molecular
crystals (30, 31), but probably less so for clathrates, as the
guest molecules have a rattling motion in the cavities, rather
than a vibrational one (3234). The adsorption of gases in clathrates depend on both an en
thalpic (static) binding energy, and an entropic part that de
pends on the guest molecules motion, and how the pres
ence of the guest affects the motion of the host framework.
