Description:
Acts as a hydrogen carrier and is used in the electrochemical ammonia oxidation reaction for applications like low-temperature fuel cells and high-purity hydrogen production.

Text:
To meet the energy demands of our modern society, which
seeks sustainable alternatives to fossil fuels, the transition to
sustainable energy sources is inevitable. Hydrogen energy is
promising as its only byproduct is water, however, because
of extreme difficulties with safe and cost effective storage
and transportation, focus is shifting towards hydrogen car
riers such as ammonia. 1,2 The electrochemical ammonia
oxidation reaction (AOR) is gaining attention due to its po
tential in various applications such as lowtemperature fuel
cells, highpurity hydrogen production, and the treatment
of ammoniacontaining wastewater. 36 These processes are
sustainable as they convert ammonia into energy or value
added products, without forming noxious byproducts such
as NOx gases.


---

Description:
A hydrogen carrier advantageous for its ease of liquefaction at room temperature and superior energy density.

Text:
1,79 As a hydrogen carrier, ammonia is ad
vantageous over liquid hydrogen because of its ease of liq
uefaction at room temperature, superior volumetric and en
ergy density, and established global transportation and stor
age infrastructure. 1,10 Ammonia is also a preferred hydro
gen carrier to water as it requires only approximately 16
of the energy to produce 1 mol of hydrogen (66 kJ versus
360 kJ for ammonia and water, respectively). 1
Apart form energy generation, AOR is applicable in treat
ing ammonia containing wastewater.


---

Description:
A nitrogen-rich compound contributing to eutrophication in wastewater.

Text:
Nitrogenrich fertiliz
B. J. R. Laframboise, S. J. Johnston, Prof. L. D. Chen
Electrochemical Technology Centre, Department of Chemistry,
University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, Canada
Email leanne.chenuoguelph.ca
ers (typically as ammonia and urea) are becoming increas
ingly popular, seeing a 40 global increase in use from 2000
to 2020. 11,12 Their use has led to excessive ammonia being
present in domestic and industrial wastewater, contribut
ing to eutrophication, which produces algal blooms that are
toxic to aquatic life. 4,12,13 Methods to remediate ammonia
rich wastewater include bacterial degradation, breakpoint
chlorination, and air stripping, with bacterial degradation
being the most commonly employed technique.


---

Description:
Used as a hydrogen carrier in aqueous alkaline electrolytes.

Text:
1 AOR for
treating ammonia in wastewater poses many benefits over
current methods because it requires less energy, does not
produce NOx gases, and is more costeffective than typical
bacterial degradation. 1,14,15
The utility of ammonia as a hydrogen carrier in an aque
ous alkaline electrolyte stems from the conversion of ammo
nia molecules into dinitrogen, water, and electrons at the
anode Eq. 1, and the reduction of water to form hydroxide
ions and hydrogen at the cathode Eq. 2. 1,16
Anode 2NH3(g)6OH(aq) N2(g)6H2O(l)6e(1)
Cathode 6H2O(l)  6e6OH(aq)  3H2(g)
(2)
Overall 2NH3(g) N2(g)  3H2(g)
(3)
This is the inverse of the well known electrochemical nitro
gen reduction reaction (NRR), a sustainable alternative for
ammonia synthesis without the high pressure and temper
ature demands of the HaberBosch process.


---

Description:
Used as a fuel for solid oxide fuel cells, where it is oxidized into hydrogen and dinitrogen.

Text:
6,17 AOR has
several practical usecases such as ammonia as a fuel for
solid oxide fuel cells, where ammonia is oxidized into hy
drogen and dinitrogen, then hydrogen oxidized to water. 18
Another implementation, which we will focus on, is het
erogeneously electrocatalyzed AOR at ambient conditions
using an alkaline aqueous electrolyte. 5,6 While promising
for various applications, industrial implementation of AOR
is limited by the current electrocatalysts facing a range of
drawbacks including sluggish kinetics, high overpotentials,
catalyst poisoning, and high costs. 1,19
An experimental study by De Vooys et al. investigated
AOR on transition metal surfaces, showing steadystate ac
tivity towards selective N2(g) formation on Pt and Ir, while
other metals showed transient N2(g) formation at best.
