Description:
Used in high-throughput screening for mechanically reactive materials.

Text:
of functional groups that lead 
to metalligand interactions in the transition state. A computationally promising complex was 
synthesized, and its enhanced mechanochemical activity in polymer strands was verified 
experimentally. Finally, we find that the enhanced mechanochemistry predicted computationally 
and verified in polymer strands translates to bulk materials, as evidenced by enhanced tearing 
energies in ferrocenecrosslinked nbutylacrylate elastomers. The latter exemplifies the potential 
of a combination of machine learning and molecularly based mechanistic insights to accelerate 
material discovery efforts in polymer networks. We envision this highthroughput screening of mechanically reactive ferrocenes as a 
foundational step for the modulation and tuning of material toughness by the installation of labile 
bonds.


---

Description:
A mechanophore with varying mechanochemical reactivity used in polymer networks.

Text:
Future incorporation of a broader range of the identified ferrocene mechanophores with 
varying mechanochemical reactivity into networks will lead to a better understanding of the 
relationship between mechanophore kinetics and bulk material properties. The approach has the 
potential to further integrate mechanophore discovery into advanced polymer material design, 
including those based on renewable, recyclable feedstocks. We foresee the capacity to increase the 
useful lifetime of materials as a contributor to sustainable solutions that address current societal 
challenges in plastic waste accumulation. In addition, mechanochemical scission of other 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024dsj2g ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000193420191 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0

19 

mechanophore motifs has been used to trigger drug release4 and signal damage in polymeric 
materials3, and the workflow established here should be translatable to those objectives.
