Description:
Photocatalysts developed for hydrogen evolution from aqueous solutions under visible light.

Text:
Funatsu and coauthors 
investigated alternative composite materials27. However, in the field of materials development, data bias presents 
difficulties when building prediction models using machine learning. Recently, photocatalytic water splitting has attracted attention as a promising technology for producing lowcost 
green hydrogen2830. The development of visiblelightresponsive photocatalysts is important for the efficient utilization 
of solar light. A number of metalsulfide photocatalysts have been developed for hydrogen evolution from aqueous 
solutions containing sacrificial reagents under visible light irradiation3032. In particular, Kudo et al., who is one of the 
authors, have developed many metalsulfide photocatalysts such as ZnSCuInS2AgInS233, AI2ZnAIVS4(AICu, Ag; 
AIVSn, Ge)34, ZnSCuGaS235, Cu3MS4(MV, Nb, Ta)36 being active for sacrificial hydrogen evolution under visible 
light irradiation.


---

Description:
A photocatalyst used for efficient hydrogen evolution.

Text:
It is necessary to develop a novel metalsulfide photocatalyst for efficient hydrogen evolution at the 
present stage because the activities of the developed photocatalysts are still low. Therefore, MI is expectedto efficiently 
develop novel photocatalytic materials. This research topic is challenging because numerous and reliable data on various 
photocatalysts are necessary to construct a prediction model utilizing MI. Here, we have a large amount of original 
experimental data on the activities of sacrificial hydrogen evolution over metalsulfide photocatalysts. The hydrogen 
evolution reaction (HER) over photocatalysts is strongly influenced by experimental conditions, such as synthesis 
conditions, reaction conditions, and chemical composition28,37,38. Specifically, their HER activities varied by 103 orders 
of magnitude depending on the experimental conditions, even if the chemical compositions of the photocatalysts were 
identical.
