Description:
Compounds that can reversibly bind and release O2 when properly functionalized and stimulated.

Text:
In order to overcome hypoxiarelated limitations, the design and development of biocompatible 
molecular vectors able to deliver O2 directly to the target tissues is gaining significant attention in the 
pharmacological field.9 In this context, an increasing amount of literature focused on aromatic 
endoperoxides (EPOs) as suitable OxygenReleasing Agents (ORAs).10 The polycyclic aromatic 
precursors are cheap, versatile substrates able to reversibly bind and release O2 when properly 
functionalized and stimulated. The chemistry of these interesting EPOs has been deepened in the 
past11 and many aspects regarding their preparation and reactivity are now wellknown and 
established.12 Among others, the group of W. Fudickar and T. Linker was able to produce a remarkable 
amount of EPOs from both anthracene13,14 and naphthalene15,16 derivatives.


---

Description:
Stable products formed from the photooxygenation of anthracene derivatives.

Text:
Compared to previously published literature,23 effective improvements were 
achieved in the photooxygenation of mono and disubstituted anthracene derivatives, namely 4
(anthracen9yl)benzoic acid, ANBA, and 4(10phenylanthracen9yl)benzoic acid, PABA, respectively, 
forming more stable EPOs compared to the analogous naphthalenederivatives, 4(naphthalen1
yl)benzoic acid, NABA, and 4(4phenylnaphthalen1yl)benzoic acid, PNBA. Out of four, only PABAO2 
was found to release O2 effectively, when heated at 90 C for a prolonged time. Herein, computational and crystallographic data were used to select the most suitable structural 
features to improve the ORA performances in terms of EPO formation and O2 release. For the first time, 
the synthesis of anthracenebased EPOs bearing carefully selected substituents was carried out using 
a continuous flow photochemical reactor allowing to envisage the industrial scale up of the 
photooxygenation step (Figure S1).
