Description:
A compound abundant on Earth, used in conversion reactions to produce valuable products.

Text:
Methane reserves are abundant on Earth and there are substantial economic and envi
ronmental benefits for converting methane to complex molecules instead of burning it as
fuel. From the environmental perspective, using methane as fuel is not ideal because of the
undesirable release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In economics terms, products of
methane conversion are more valuable than inert methane because they can be used in a
variety of downstream chemical manufacturing processes. These considerations have driven
extensive efforts to develop methane conversion reactions 17. Presently, the commercial processes of methane conversion, such as steam reforming or
partial oxidation, are multistep indirect procedures that produce synthesis gas that is then
converted into highvalue products, such as methanol, olefins, and parafins 3, 5.


---

Description:
A compound with low chemical reactivity, challenging for direct conversion to value-added products.

Text:
Due to
losses in each step, a direct conversion of methane is more desirable and has been stud
ied extensively 8. Unfortunately, direct conversion of methane to valueadded products is
challenging because of the low chemical reactivity of methane. Direct methane activation
has usually involved a bulk catalyst, owing to the advantages of simply pumping methane
gas onto solids that can handle high temperatures and pressures. Oxidative coupling of
methane has mostly been reported for heterogenous catalysts 8. Methane dehydroarom
atization, where methane is converted nonoxidatively into aromatic compounds, mainly
benzene, has also been performed exclusively heterogeneously, using HZSM5 and HMCM5
zeolites containing molybdenum centers 6 and more recently gallium nitride 9, 10.


---

Description:
Homogeneous activation reactions offer advantages like lower reaction temperature and improved selectivity.

Text:
How
ever, homogeneous dehydroaromatization of higher alkanes has been demonstrated using a
molecular iridium catalyst 11. Homogeneous methane activation reactions are of great interest because they offer several
potential advantages over heterogeneous processes, including the stabilization of products
through solvation effects, a variety of effective heat management strategies, lower reaction
temperature, greater control of the reaction mechanism, and improved selectivity 12. The
high reactivity of transition metal complexes has enabled considerable advances in homo
geneous activation of methane in synthetic chemistry over the years, from the latter half of
the 20th century onwards. 13, 8, 1315.
