Description:
A meteorite-derived alloy with huge magnetic properties.

Text:
Moreover, in the past few years, a new natural material has
been introduced, this material is coming from a meteorite component and it is named as tetrataenite which has a chemical
formula of (NiFe), it is an alloy. This new material has properties as the transition rareearth materials, it possesses a huge
magnetical properties. This material may possess advanced properties,which could be advantages for future catalysis,
engineering, and technologies applications. Interesting composite materials may be engineered in combination with other
materials as we know synergistic effect is playing interesting role in materials sciences applications. Therefore, we dedicate
here a brief review in the recent applications of nanomaterials designed from the inspiration of tetrataenite features in the
engineering fields. 2.


---

Description:
A magnetic mineral with appreciable magnetic hardness and singular magnetic properties.

Text:
Application of inspired nanomaterials from meteorite the tetrataenite(NiFe)
As demonstrated in the litterature, tetrataenite is a favorable materials coming from a mineral meteorite, NiFe is his chemical
composition. First, in 1988 Wasilewski, P 11 did a characterization of the magnetic mineral tetrataenite and its distinction
with isochemical taenite. So, it is described that taenite with 4857  of nickel is magnetically soft, however when changed
through atomic ordering below 320 C it becomes the novel magnetic mineral tetrataenite along with appreciable magnetic
hardness and other singular magnetic properties. Also, it noted that tetrataenite is omnipresent in chondrite meteorites,
happen as discrete grain, as a distinct taenite rim, and in the etched nebulous zone.


---

Description:
A component in graphene-embedded materials used for electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reactions.

Text:
So, here Haikal,R.R., et al, 12 reported
an approach to synthesized hybrid ultramicroporous material (HUM) precursor to grapheneembbeded tetrataenite as superb
highly active and durable nonprecious group (NPG) metals for the electrocatalytic oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Indeed,
the authors well demonstrated the improvement in the properties of the designed materials. So, after Raman spectroscopy
analysis, it was founded that the ratio (IDIG) is about 1.562 of the graphitic carbon in the designed materials while normally
the unmodified graphene or ordered graphite has (IDIG) ratio of around 11.2. thus this indicate a higher degree of disorder
in the synthesized catalyst.
