Description:
A MOF known for its exceptional chemical and thermal stability due to a strong ZrO bond and high coordination number of Zr.

Text:
2D MOFs are synthesized in lamellar sheets, where it has been shown that these layers can be exfoliated into monolayers which are 
attractive as a building block of thin films.13, 18, 19 
UiO66, named after the University of Oslo,20 is one of the most studied MOFs thanks to its exceptional chemical and thermal 
stability attributed to a strong ZrO bond and a high coordination number of Zr.21, 22 UiO66 is formed by the coordination of zirco
niumoxo cluster with terephthalic acid where an octahedral cage shares its eight triangular faces with eight tetrahedral cages (Figure 
S1), each featuring a scale triangular aperture. The pore size of UiO66 is attractive to differentiate molecules and ions.


---

Description:
A highly stable material, including in water, explored for gas separation, desalination, and ion separation.

Text:
Thanks to 
its high stability including in water, UiO66 films have been explored for gas separation,23, 24 desalination,25, 26 and ionion separa
tion.2729 
UiO66 possesses a 3D structure. Its synthesis in 2D morphology has not been reported mainly because of the challenges from the 
isotropic robust bonds in its structure. While an emerging class of nonvan der Waals (nonvdW) quasi2D materials has been syn
thesized from nonlayered 3D crystals,3033 they have been predominantly demonstrated for transition metal oxides. Extending this 
concept to MOFs, and in particular UiO66, is highly attractive to prepare 2D morphologies and ultrathin films for advancing thin 
film applications for highly stable MOFs. A potential approach is anisotropic 2D growth of UiO66, however, this has not been 
reported.


---

Description:
A metal-organic framework observed to have a crystallographic registry with graphene.

Text:
As a result, the stateoftheart UiO66 films are 23 orders of magnitude thicker than the desired 2D film (Figure S2 and 
Table S1). Herein, we report the first nonvdW 2D MOF in the form of 2D UiO66NH2 film by developing conditions leading to anisotropic 
2D growth. Briefly, the composition of the precursor solution was screened to develop growth conditions that delay homogeneous 
nucleation of UiO66NH2 in the bulk solution, promote inplane growth of 2D nuclei, and slow outofplane growth. This was further 
facilitated by the use of atomically smooth graphitic substrates. A crystallographic registry between the graphene superstructure and 
the 2D lattice of UiO66 along the aoutofplane direction was observed. The thickness of the film could be tuned from 0.5 to 2 unit 
cells.


---

Description:
A framework with high stability, maintaining integrity in 0.1 M salt solutions for more than one month.

Text:
Pinholefree sub10nmthick films could be prepared, evident from KMg2 selectivity. Thanks to the high stability of the 
UiO66 framework, unitcellthick films were stable in 0.1 M salt solutions for more than one month. The chemistry for the synthesis 
of the film is green (water as opposed to organic solvent) and userfriendly involving room temperature synthesis reaction time that 
is only a few minutes.
