Description:
A species that can quench the excited state of TADF materials.

Text:
In recent decades, there has been a significant focus on the development of organic thermally 
activated delayed fluorescence (TADF) materials as potential emitters for use in organic lightemitting 
diodes (OLEDs)1 and sensors,2 as well as acting as photocatalysts.3 Notably, the delayed 
fluorescence of TADF materials makes them wellsuited to their use in timeresolved fluorescence 
imaging (TRFI) studies.4 This is because the long lifetimes of the TADF materials can address signal
tonoise issues associated with discriminating the dye signal from the autofluorescence of biological 
systems. An ideal TADF probe should have a sufficiently long emission lifetime ( 10 ns), suitable 
biocompatibility, and a tolerance to both atmospheric and intracellular oxygen such that its excited 
state is not too readily quenched by this species.


---

Description:
A molecule that is shielded by BSA to permit long-lived delayed emission of DCFMPYM.

Text:
To achieve these properties, several strategies have been developed 1) TADF emitters capped 
with human serum albumin (HSA) or bovine serum albumin (BSA).5 Xiong et al. were the first to 
report a TADF emitter, DCFMPYM (Figure S1a), that was used in conjunction with BSA. This 
adduct was employed as the contrast agent in the TRLI of MCF7 cells, and showed longlived 
luminescence (d  22.11 s in deaerated ethanol) at PL of 649 nm.5a, 5b The BSA protein provides a 
hydrophobic cavity and a reductive environment that shields the emitter from oxygen, thus permitting 
the longlived delayed emission of DCFMPYM to persist in the cells.


---

Description:
Quenching of emission can be suppressed due to its limited ability to make physical contact with the emitter in the aggregated state.

Text:
Although these selfassembled 
NPs show good biocompatibility, photostability, and water dispersibility, the authors did not 
demonstrate their TADF properties nor provide any TRFI studies. 3) Aggregationinduced delayed 
fluorescence (AIDF).7 The quenching of the emission by oxygen can be suppressed due to its limited 
ability to make physical contact with the emitter in the aggregated state. Qi et al. reported the use of 
three AIDF emitters, PXZNI, PTZNI and lysosometargeting LysoPXZNI, each containing a 1,8
naphthalimide (NI) acceptor.7b In aqueous solutions that produced the aggregated form, all three 
TADF materials demonstrated markedly enhanced delayed fluorescence when concentrations were 
increased. Subsequently, confocal fluorescence and lifetime imaging studies were performed using 
laser scanning microscopy and TRFI.
