Description:
Exhibits charge carrier lifetimes that are four orders of magnitude higher and hole diffusion length one order of magnitude longer than Fe2O3, but suffers from poor bulk electronic conductivity and slow water oxidation rate.

Text:
2.4  2.6 eV) and 
good stability under typical operating conditions in aqueous 
solutions.4,5 When compared with other metal oxides, such as 
Fe2O3, BiVO4 exhibits charge carrier lifetimes that are four 
orders of magnitude higher, and hole diffusion length one or
der of magnitude longer.68 Nevertheless, pristine BiVO4 still 
suffers from poor bulk electronic conductivity, ineffective hole 
extraction, and slow rate of water oxidation.6,9 As a result, the 
reported photocurrent densities at nonmodified BiVO4 are 
typically much lower than the maximum theoretical value of 
6.4  8.9 mA cm2 under AM 1.5G illumination, corresponding 
to maximum solartoH2 conversion efficiencies of 8
11.10,11 Thus, designing straightforward, scalable strategies 
to overcome these drawbacks of BiVO4 materials represents 
an important research agenda.


---

Description:
Used in photoelectrodes and can be modified with polyoxometalates for enhanced performance.

Text:
One recent approach to modify BiVO4 photoelectrodes is 
incorporation of polyoxometalates (POMs) as singlesource 
molecular precursors. POMs are molecular metal oxide clus
ters formed by selfassembly in solution.1214 Of specific in
terest in this context is the cobaltfunctionalized polyoxomet
alate Co4(H2O)2(PW9O34)210 (CoPOM), where a Co4O4 
core is stabilized by two oxidatively resistant polyoxotungstate 
ligands.1517 The compound has been reported as an active 
water oxidation catalyst (WOC) as well as precursor to highly 
reactive cobalt oxyhydroxies, so that operation under homoge
neous or heterogenized conditions is possible.14,18 This in turn 
has attracted major interest for surfacedeposition as co
catalyst on BiVO4 photoanodes. For example, Ryu et al.


---

Description:
Used in photoanodes for PEC water oxidation and enhanced by CoPOM cocatalyst.

Text:
suc
cessfully designed a photoanode by depositing a thin film of 
cationic polyelectrolytes and anionic CoPOMWOCs on the 
surface of various photoelectrode materials (e.g. Fe2O3, BiVO4 
and TiO2) for improving the PEC performance as well as sta
bility.19 Fan and coworkers reported CoPOM as a novel mo
lecular cocatalyst deposited on Ndoped carbon (NC) to 
boost the charge separation and injection of BiVO4 pho
toanodes for PEC water oxidation.20 Some of us have recently 
reported a direct linking of CoPOMs to the surface of Mo
doped BiVO4 photoanodes.


---

Description:
Used in photoanodes for PEC water oxidation, with enhanced photogenerated hole extraction and oxygen evolution reaction kinetics.

Text:
The system showed significantly 
enhanced PEC performance, featuring lower photocurrent 
onset potentials and higher charge transfer efficiency.21 These 
initial studies suggest that CoPOM is a promising cocatalyst 
for PEC water oxidation at BiVO4 photoanodes, as it improves 
the photogenerated hole extraction and enhances the oxygen 
evolution reaction kinetics. This inspired the present study to 
explore how a double use of bulk and surface deposition of 
CoPOM can be used to optimize the performance 
Notably, transition metal doping is an established strategy to 
improve the conductivity of BiVO4 and promote the PEC per
formance. For example, He et al. developed BiVO4 nanoflake 
array films codoped with Mo and W to increase the conduc
tivity of BiVO4 and to slightly to enhance the water oxidation 
kinetics.22 Fang et al.
