Description:
Produces a wide range of nanostructured morphologies including nanoparticles and nanosheets.

Text:
Nanotechnology is an emerging field of research. The distinct physical and chemical
characteristics of nanoparticles, such as their higher aspect ratio and increased surface area
in comparison to bigger particles, have attracted a lot of interest (1). An exciting area of
nanotechnology with positive economic and environmental effects is the emergence of
green chemistry for the efficient synthesis of metalbased nanoparticles using extracts of
various plants (2), as opposed to chemical and physical methods used for nanoparticle
synthesis. Potential options among these metalbased nanoparticles, such zinc oxide (ZnO),
have drawn a lot of attention. The synthesis of ZnO produces a wide range of
nanostructured morphologies, including nanoparticles and nanosheets, as well as more
complicated structures such as nanowires, nanotubes, nanoarrays, nanorings, nanodisks,
nanobelts, and nanorods (3).


---

Description:
Notable for high surface area-to-volume ratios, excellent electron transport capabilities, and enhanced mechanical strength, with applications in electrical engineering, optoelectronics, electrochemistry, and electromechanical systems.

Text:
For
instance, onedimensional ZnO configurations, such as rods, wires, prisms and needles, are
particularly
notable
for
their
unique
characteristics,
which
include
high
surfaceareatovolume ratios, excellent electron transport capabilities, and enhanced
mechanical
strength,
with
applications
ranging
from
electrical
engineering
to
optoelectronics,
electrochemistry,
and
electromechanical systems (4). The various
morphologies could be studied in more detail and understood, with cases such as m ZnO
nanorods, that have become a subject of interest through continuous experimentation due
to their unique properties. In the case of ZnO nanorods with wurtzite structures, the 002
plane is parallel to the polar face and other planes such as 100 and 101 represent nonpolar
faces in the hexagonal shape (5).


---

Description:
Exhibits unique optical and piezoelectric properties useful in sensors, actuators, and photovoltaic devices.

Text:
This anisotropic growth along the caxis contributes to the
unique optical and piezoelectric properties of ZnO nanorods, making them particularly
useful in applications like sensors, actuators, and photovoltaic devices. Interestingly, the
growth of the crystalline rods is largely towards the caxis since it has a lesser
thermodynamic stability in regards to surface dipoles located on polar faces than on
nonpolar faces (7). During crystallization, the polar facets actively engage with zinc
hydroxyl (Zn(OH)) and hydroxyl (OH) ions, which are crucial for the structures formation,
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv20247c8ktv2 ORCID httpsorcid.org0009000264641264 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
