Description:
Forms various allotropes including graphene, nanotubes, and fullerenes used in technological applications.

Text:
The phenomenal rise of carbon allotropes such as graphene,1 
nanotubes, 2,3 and fullerenes, 4 has been continuously offering tech
nological advances in various fields, including photovoltaics, 5,6 bat
teries and supercapacitors, 710 membranes, 11,12 gas separation and 
storage, 13 chemical catalysis, 1416 and electronic sensors. 1719 It is 
quite fortunate that carbon nanotubes, and fullerenes can be easily 
produced on industrial scale by brute force methods  precipita
tion of carbon from the gas phase using metal catalysts or via an 
electric discharge between carbon electrodes, and that graphene 
can be economically produced by exfoliation from natural graphite 
sources. 14 
Schwarzites, a particularly elusive form of carbon allotropes, 
have generated considerable excitement, although synthesis re
mains unrealized.


---

Description:
Consists of sp2 hybridized atoms forming hypothetical materials with unique periodicity.

Text:
Introduced by McKay and Terrones over three 
decades ago, 20 Schwarzites named after German mathematician 
Karl Hermann Amandus Schwarz are unique in their triple perio
dicity possessing a beautiful symmetry that continues to fascinate 
physicists and material scientists around the world. Like its cous
ins, these hypothetical carbon materials are supposed to consist of 
only sp2hybridized carbon atoms, with the striking difference that 
it would be a single piece of a continuous periodic surface filling in 
the whole 3D space. Access to Schwarzites would be analogous to 
achieving a tight packing of a single layer graphene in 3D space by 
bending, twisting, and fitting it in without cutting into pieces while 
enhancing its remarkable properties.


---

Description:
Forms spherical fullerenes or cylindrical nanotubes through spontaneous growth and termination of a positively curved surface.

Text:
According to numerous DFT 
calculations, Schwarzites might have superior mechanical 
strength, light weight, high porosity, gas permeability, combined 
with a tunable energy gap between the valence and conduction 
bands which graphene is lacking. The synthesis of Schwarzites remains a challenging task that is 
fundamentally related to their negative Gaussian curvature. The 
spontaneous growth and termination of a positively curved surface 
of carbon atoms by closing to itself produces spherical fullerenes 
or cylindrical nanotubes as a converging process in which pieces 
with different curvature can be separated afterwards by fractiona
tion. Growth at a constant zero curvature to a flat graphene is non
converging, therefore, infinite. In contrast, growth of a negatively 
curved triply periodic minimal surface (TPMS) from a gas phase 
carbon is infinite but diverging.
