Description:
Prominent in organic synthesis, facilitating complex and selective transformations.

Text:
Cobalt has become increasingly prominent in organic synthesis, 
especially 
in 
facilitating 
complex 
and 
selective 
transformations.16 Among the various cobalt complexes 
employed, cobalamin, a porphyrinoid with a cobalt(III) centre, 
stands out as a biologically derived catalyst harnessed for 
various 
synthetic 
applications.79 
The 
cobaltcatalysed 
transformations, like CC coupling, hydrogenation, oxidation, 
dehalogenation, etc., benefit from the unique coordination 
environment provided by the macrocycle, which can be fine
tuned to enhance selectivity and reactivity.


---

Description:
Effectively catalyses cyclopropanation reaction when complexed with Nconfused porphyrin.

Text:
Cobalt complex of Nconfused porphyrin 
(NCP), the first among carbaporphyrins,12, 13 quite effectively 
catalyses cyclopropanation reaction.14 On the other hand, the 
forced proximity of the (typically) aryl fragment to the metal 
centre within the macrocycle creates unique conditions that 
could facilitate its selective functionalisation.10, 15 Thus, NCP 
reacted with a cobalt source can get functionalised at the inner 
C(21) atom with an oxygen atom,16 cyano,17 2chlorovinyl,16 
methyl,18 or tolyl groups,19 depending on the reaction 
conditions. Here, the C(sp3)H activation and functionalisation 
of an carbon atom in ketones within metallocarbaporphyrins 
remain underexplored.


---

Description:
Forms a high-spin complex with unusually shielded signals in the 1H NMR spectrum.

Text:
Results 
Acetone molecule activation 
The serendipitous discovery of the unusual acetone activation 
by the cobalt complex of a modified porphyrin (Scheme 1) 
occurred while trying to insert a cobalt ion into azuliporphyrin 1 
in a different than previously solvent to form a known 4
coordinate regular complex (with CNNN coordination).27 
Instead of seeing a wellknown lowspin CoII pattern in the 1H 
NMR spectrum, we received a previously unobserved highspin 
(HS) complex with unusually shielded signals at as far as 101.4 
ppm (at 300 K). Isolation of this species (2) allowed for a detailed investigation. The 1H NMR spectrum shown in Fig. 1 presents a symmetric 
pattern coming from protons of a parent ligand with preserved 
a.
