Description:
A greenhouse gas with significant emissions from the oil and gas sector.

Text:
Reducing anthropogenic methane emissions will greatly increase the feasibility of the
1.5 degree temperature goal from the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement (Collins et al,
2018; Schleussner et al, 2016). The oil and gas sector provides a promising avenue
for emissions reduction as it accounts for 22 of global anthropogenic methane emis
sions (ORourke et al, 2021; Crippa et al, 2021) and 32 within the U.S. (EPA,
2022). Methane emissions from the oil and gas sector exhibit high temporal variability
(Allen et al, 2017; Wang et al, 2022), and infrequent, shortlived super emitter events
represent a large portion of overall emissions (Brandt et al, 2016; Cusworth et al,
2021).


---

Description:
A gas whose atmospheric transport can be simulated to infer emission source information.

Text:
Therefore, continuous monitoring systems (CMS) will likely play an increasing
role in emissions monitoring as they provide frequent measurements that are neces
sary for capturing signals from emissions with high temporal variability (Bell et al,
2023; Daniels et al, 2023). Rather than directly measuring emission rates (Riddick
et al, 2022), most CMS measure ambient methane concentrations at sensor locations
(for pointinspace sensor networks) (Daniels et al, 2024), integrated concentrations
along an openpath (for scanning laser systems) (Alden et al, 2019), or 2D images of
concentration enhancements (for IR cameras) (AbdelMoati et al, 2015). For pointinspace sensors, inferring emission source information (i.e. location and
rate) from concentration measurements can be framed as an inverse problem which
requires a forward model to simulate the atmospheric transport of methane.


---

Description:
A contaminant whose concentration is modeled for atmospheric transport and leak detection.

Text:
In some
form, a forward model for this problem provides a solution for the advectiondiffusion
partial differential equation (PDE), given by
c
t   (cu)  (Kc)  s.
(1)
Here, u is the wind vector, K is a diagonal matrix whose elements are the diffusion
coefficients, and s is a source term. This PDE models the atmospheric transport of
the concentration of some contaminant c as a function of time and space. Solving
this equation gives a concentration field that can be used in conjunction with CMS
measurements to detect methane leaks. The traditional methods used to solve this
PDE are gridbased CFD methods that couple (1) with the NavierStokes equations
and, potentially, a turbulence model. These conventional methods pose two problems
for this application.
