Description:
A product of ethylene glycol oxidation.

Text:
Ethylene glycol is a widely and diversely utilized com
pound in chemical industry with a global production of
57 million metric tons in 20221, applications of which
range from automotive to pharmaceutical. Recently, at
tention has been drawn to its role as sustainable feed
stock for numerous chemical processes, including, among
others, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and antifreeze
production, and in textile industry2,3. Furthermore, the
selective oxidation of ethylene glycol to produce value
added products holds great promise for the development
of ecologically friendly and economically viable processes. Depending on the reaction conditions and the nature of
the used catalyst, oxidation of ethylene glycol can yield
a variety of products, including glycolaldehyde, glycolic
acid, glyoxylic acid, glyoxal, oxalic acid, formic acid, and
even fully oxidized carbon dioxide.


---

Description:
Produced selectively in high yield during the oxidation of ethylene glycol.

Text:
In a study on the electrochemical oxidation of ethylene
glycol, Chauhan and coworkers4 utilized a platinum
catalyst in a channel flow reactor and observed selective
oxidation with high yield of glycolic acid, compared to
other products. They furthermore noticed low quantities
of single carbon (C1) compounds such as formic acid
and carbon dioxide, and suggested that the pathway to
corresponding author,
Email me at
stephane.kenmoeuni
due.de
carbon dioxide production is still unclear and requires
a high oxidative potential to achieve C C bond
cleavage. To enhance the catalytic activity of Pt, Kim
and coworkers5 performed experimental work on Pt
nanotubes doped with silver. They observed that these
materials reduce the poisoning of Pt nanotubes during
the electrooxidation of ethylene glycol and glycerol.


---

Description:
Produced through electrocatalytic oxidation of ethylene glycol, offering better product yield than thermocatalytic methods.

Text:
Also using a Pt catalyst,
Salciccioli and Vlachos6
studied the kinetic decomposition of ethylene glycol
by density functional theory (DFT) combined with a
statistical mechanical model. They detected that the
initial reaction step involved cleavage of the O H
bond, and that increasing temperature favored cleavage
of the C H bond. The reaction rate of C C bond
cleavage was found to be lower compared to that for the
breaking of other bonds. A comprehensive review by
Qi and coworkers7 suggested that the electrocatalytic
ethylene glycol oxidation to glycolic acid serves as a
better alternative to thermocatalytic approaches in
terms of product yield. Further challenges persist,
as selectivity for specific reaction products is hard to
achieve, necessitating further development in the design
of electrochemical reactors and catalytic materials.
