Description:
The product of CO2 hydrogenation using transition metal catalysts.

Text:
For instance, transitionmetal
catalysts can enable the hydrogenation of CO2 to methanol
via thermal processes.1620 Currently, CuZnOAl2O3 is the
stateoftheart catalyst for performing this reaction.21 How
ever, this catalyst experiences deactivation in the presence of
high concentrations of water within the reaction mixture.2022
Hence, developing new, watertolerant catalysts is crucial to
achieve industrial CO2 utilization. Pdbased CO2 hydrogenation catalysts are more water
tolerant than those based on Cu.


---

Description:
The desired product whose selectivity can be increased by alloying Pd with Zn or Ga.

Text:
Nevertheless, these systems
favor the reverse watergas shift reaction and produce signif
icant amounts of carbon monoxide.17,18 It has been shown
that the selectivity to the desired methanol product can be in
creased by alloying Pd with a second metal, such as Zn or
Ga.20,23 Therefore, alloy materials offer a promising strategy
for improving the performance of CO2 hydrogenation cata
lysts. Singleatom catalysts are a frontline approach in catalysis
research.24,25 In these materials, isolated atoms of a metal
are dispersed and stabilized on a host material. If the sub
strates are metals, we identify these materials as singleatom
alloys (SAAs).


---

Description:
A product of CO2 conversion modeled in DFT studies.

Text:
Theoretical approaches like those based on density func
tional theory (DFT),38 can elucidate specific processes re
lated to reactivity, such as surface reaction elementary steps.39
For instance, it is possible to model the CO2 activation, the
key initial step for converting the molecule into valuable
products.40,41 Several DFT studies model the full reaction
path for the CO2 conversion, on SAAs, to different products
like methanol and Ethylene.42,43
Artificial Intelligence (AI) can accelerate the discovery of
promising materials by identifying correlations and patterns in
data.44 Nonetheless, only few SAAs might present the prop
erties required for them to be useful in a specific application. This is often the case in catalysis, where only a handful of
compounds are known as efficient catalysts (active, selective,
and stable during operation).
