Description:
Forms a shell in Rucore Pt shell nanoparticles, slowing down or inhibiting Ru dissolution.

Text:
For PtRu nanoparticles, this includes,
in particular, the dissolution of the individual
components into the electrolyte, where Ru dis
solution is more facile than Pt, but also a possi
ble surface restructuring.3035 For Rucore Pt
shell nanoparticles, it was shown that the Pt
shell slows down or even inhibits the dissolu
tion of Ru, and the effect is usually stronger
with increasing Pt layer thickness.10,13,14,30,36,37
Nevertheless, Ru dissolution often occurred also
for these materials during longterm stability
tests, which was attributed to the formation of
pinholes in the Pt shell.38
Fundamental studies aiming at a more de
tailed understanding of the reactivity, adsorp
tion properties, and stability of RuPt core
shell electrodes often use Ptmodified Ru(0001)
electrodes,3950 which are perfect, welldefined
model systems and therefore well suited for
fundamental studies, including comparison of
theory and experiment.6,39 Model studies us
ing such electrodes in the ORR,51 the hydro
gen underpotential deposition (HUPD),41 or
the MOR45,52 revealed a distinct influence of
the Pt layer thickness on Ru(0001).


---

Description:
Protects low-coordinated Ru atoms at step edges against dissolution.

Text:
The sta
bility of such model electrodes has been inves
tigated so far only for oxidation reactions on
(sub) monolayer Pt filmcovered surfaces, em
ploying ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) scanning tun
nelling microscopy (STM) measurements before
and after the electrochemicalcatalytic mea
surements.5355 The results indicated that Pt
protects the lowcoordinated Ru atoms at step
edges against dissolution, shifting the onset po
tential for dissolution to more positive values. For potentials larger than 1.05 V, Ru disso
lution on the Ptmodified Ru(0001) electrodes
was mainly observed at the Ru steps (step flow
corrosion). Furthermore, Pt was found to re
structure, forming Pt clusters on the surface in
the regions of the original Pt islands.


---

Description:
Used to modify Ru(0001) electrodes for stability in electrooxidation.

Text:
In this work, we focus on the stability of
Ptmodified Ru(0001) electrodes with Pt thick
nesses of up to three layers during the electro
oxidation of methanol (MeOH) and CO in acid
at potentials larger than 1.05 V. This potential
had been chosen as upper potential limit in pre
vious studies to prevent possible restructuring
of the electrodes during the experiment.41,51,52
Here, we first studied the stability and struc
tural modifications of an electrode with three
Pt layers in pure supporting H2SO4 electrolyte
and during the MOR by surface Xray diffrac
tion (SXRD) at the synchrotron.


---

Description:
Used to modify Ru(0001) electrodes for stability studies.

Text:
The measure
ments indicated that these electrodes are sur
prisingly stable up to 1.4 V, in contrast to the
submonolayer Pt modified Ru(0001) electrodes
studied previously,5355 or to pure Pt(111) elec
trodes.5660 Inspired by this finding, we then
explored the stability of Ptmodified Ru(0001)
electrodes with a Pt thickness of one and three
layers for the COOR.
