Description:
Used in electrochemical processes to activate dinitrogen (N2).

Text:
Ammonia is a vital chemical that is primarily used to produce fertilizer for agriculture, but 
also has uses in the chemical industry as a commodity chemical.1,2 Globally, more than 
180 million metric tons of ammonia are produced annually by the HaberBosch process3 
which is responsible for around 1  of global carbon dioxide emission and requires large, 
centralized facilities to be operated continuously. Developing an alternative process to 
produce ammonia with less environmental impact and in localizable devices would 
enable onsite and ondemand production that can be coupled to the evergrowing 
renewable 
energy 
sector. Alkalimetal 
mediated 
electrochemical 
processes, 
predominantly the lithium mediated system has proven to be the best candidate for 
activating dinitrogen (N2) since its revival in 2019.4 Initially developed by Tsuneto et al.


---

Description:
A metal that can be electrodeposited from a lithium-based organic electrolyte.

Text:
in 
the 1990s,5 the system relies upon insitu electrodeposition of lithium metal from a 
lithiumbased organic electrolyte, usually onto a metal working electrode.


---

Description:
Used in conjunction with a solid electrolyte interphase to enable selective N2 reduction.

Text:
5 In conjunction 
with lithium metal, a solid electrolyte interphase forms which moderates the access of 
reagents to enable selective N2 reduction.6,7 
Vast improvements in the Faradaic efficiencies of lithium mediated N2 reduction have 
resulted primarily from research focused on optimising the electrolyte813 or employing 
more industrially relevant cells such as a flow cell with gas diffusion electrodes.12,14,15 
There have been a limited number of studies focused on the cathode material, most 
employ metal electrodes such as molybdenum9,10 or stainless steel.12,14 These electrodes 
exhibit low current density and electrochemical performance in terms of yield rate (nmol 
s1 cm2geo) towards ammonia due to their low surface area. In the stateoftheart flow cell, 
Figure 1. Schematic showing a flow cell for lithium mediated ammonia synthesis with a carbon cathode.


---

Description:
Involved in the mechanism of plating onto a carbon cathode.

Text:
The mechanism of lithium plating onto a carbon 
cathode is highlighted as well as the benefits of employing a carbon cathode. httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024wmn17 ORCID httpsorcid.org0009000744078394 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
