Description:
Heterocyclic compounds that are challenging to synthesize by traditional methods.

Text:
Photochemistry has ushered in a new era in the development of chemistry, and photoredox 
catalysis has become a hot topic, especially over the last fifteen years, with the combination of 
visiblelight photoredox catalysis and radical reactions. Recently, visiblelight photoredox catalysis has 
emerged as a powerful tool for the synthesis of densely substituted heterocycles that are difficult to 
prepare by traditional methods 1. All these features make photoredox catalysis a sustainable 
alternative from the viewpoint of radical reactions and one that can be utilized as an elegant method 
to access reactive radicals giving practically valuable heterocyclic derivatives. Despite the recent 
publication of several large reviews on the photochemical formation of CS bonds 2, 3, 4, the topic 
of photochemical synthesis of 1,3benzothiazoles is very poorly described.


---

Description:
Compounds with approximately 340k mentions in 196k documents related to their chemical space.

Text:
Considering our constant 
interest in sulfurcontaining heterocycles and their chemistry 511, we have found that more than 
20 different types of such Sheterocycles can be obtained photochemically, and among them, the 
benzothiazoles are definitely the most developed. They are privileged and versatile heterocyclic 
scaffolds with extensive applications in pharmaceutical industry and materials science. As of 
November 2024, Reaxys database showed approximately 340k compounds mentioned in 196k 
documents related to chemical space of 1,3benzothiazoles. There are several early works published 
in 1982 12 and 1997 13 using ultraviolet (UV)lightinduced intramolecular aromatic substitutions 
of 2bromoiodothiobenzanilides to benzothiazoles. The application of quartz equipment, high
energy UV light and harsh conditions (in some cases a strong base in liquid ammonia) limits the 
substrate scope and causes unwanted side reaction products.
