Description:
Polyaromatic compounds composed of ortho fused benzene rings with a screw-like structure.

Text:
Helicenes are polyaromatic compounds, composed of ortho
fused benzene rings, which are known for their unusual, screw
like structure.


---

Description:
A compound class with a stereogenic sp2 hybridised backbone, known for its chiroptical properties and high charge transport capabilities.

Text:
Notably, the stereogenic element of helicenes is 
the sp2hybridised backbone, leading to a colocalisation of 
helical chirality and polyaromatic structure that results in many 
intriguing properties and, ultimately, in the establishment of 
helicenes as a prominent compound class within chiral 
materials research.1,2 
Of particular interest are the chiroptical properties of 
helicenes, which can show strong dissymmetries3 in the 
absorption (circular dichroism, CD) or emission (circularly 
polarised luminescence, CPL)4 of circularly polarised (CP) light 
due to the integration of aromatic chromophores within the 
helical framework.5 Due to these properties, helicenes have 
been used in applications for both the emission (CPOLEDs)69 
and detection of CP light.1012 
In addition to these highly dissymmetric chiroptical 
properties, helicenes are often observed to have high charge 
transport capabilities due to their conjugated structure.1316 
This allows for the use of helicenes as semiconductors in 
perovskite solar cells,17,18 a humidity sensor,19 or OFETs,20,21 
amongst other applications.


---

Description:
Chiral molecules with potential use as spinfilters in devices due to their ability to achieve spinselective electron transport.

Text:
But perhaps the most intriguing 
application is the potential use of helicenes as spinfilters in 
devices. As chiral molecules, helicene enantiomers may be able 
to achieve spinselective electron transport,2226 also known as 
the chiral induced spin selectivity (CISS) effect.27 This opens up 
the potential for helicenes to be used in a variety of spintronics 
devices such as magnetic RAM and Hall effect sensors.28,29 
These examples discussed so far demonstrate the flourishing 
landscape of helicene research and provide a strong basis for 
continued investigations of these intriguing molecules.


---

Description:
Compounds with a helical backbone often containing a heteroatom that influences their physical and optoelectronic properties.

Text:
A common feature in many helicenes mentioned above is 
the inclusion of a heteroatom into the helical backbone.30 This 
is often highlighted by studies as crucial in influencing the 
physical and optoelectronic properties of a helicene.13,3133 
However, there are relatively few studies dedicated solely 
towards investigating synthetic strategies for making a wider 
range of heterohelicenes based on N, O, and Sheterocycles. Existing examples include photochemical methodologies as 
applied to the synthesis of azahelicenes by the Carrona 
group34,35 and a variety of thiahelicenes synthesised by the 
Wynberg group.3638 Mallory photocyclisations39 are one of the 
most common strategies to access heterohelicenes but non
photochemical methodologies such as the Scholl reaction,4042 
oxidative couplings,43 and 222 cycloisomerisations4446 have 
also been reported.


---

Description:
Compounds that can be synthesized in flow through cycloisomerisations.

Text:
Flow or photoflow methodologies are an oftenoverlooked 
synthetic strategy for accessing heterohelicenes. In particular, 
photoflow chemistry may offer advantages over batch 
chemistry including straightforward scalability and a higher 
tolerance for the high dilution and potential photodegradation 
encountered in Mallory photocyclisations.47,48 Some examples 
of helicenes and heterohelicenes synthesised in flow have been 
reported such as the 222 cycloisomerisations mentioned 
above, but only a handful of these explore the preparation of 
heterohelicenes by photocyclisation.4953 
In this work, we report the Mallory photocyclisation of a 
series of heterohelicenes using a photochemical flow reactor. Most substrates were synthesised within a short 100 s 
residence time by using a powerful 150 W LED 365 nm lamp, 
enabling throughputs of up to 195 mg of stilbene per hour.
