Description:
An OER active phase whose surface varies depending on the conditions.

Text:
These properties have implications on the hydration 
shell of these cations in the alkaline electrolyte. Taking Cs and 
Li for comparison, the solvation shell of Li is built from stronger 
noncovalent bonds. Cs, as a softer cation, on the other hand, is 
less solvated and is, therefore, expected to adsorb in larger 
quantities on the electrode surface.6,14,15 Their hydration 
enthalpies range from 519 kJmol for Li to 409, 322, and 264 
kJmol for Na, K, and Cs, respectively.16 The surface of the 
catalyst, that is in our case the surface of a NiOOH, OER active 
phase, varies depending on the conditions.


---

Description:
An unstable phase at open circuit potential that forms upon polarizing Ni(OH)2.

Text:
The NiOOH phase is 
unstable at open circuit potential, but is created when polarizing 
the Ni(OH)2 phase, of which two polymorphs exist, where 
Ni(OH)2 is a hydrated, disordered form of Ni(OH)2.17,18 
Charging of Ni(OH)2 first leads to an oxidation of Ni2 to Ni3 and 
a phase change to NiOOH. Upon further charging, the oxidation 
state of Ni increases up to Ni3.66 and a NiOOH phase is formed. When starting with Ni(OH)2, immediately NiOOH crystallizes 
upon polarization.


---

Description:
Contains intercalated H2O and alkali metal cations.

Text:
In contrast to NiOOH, in NiOOH, both H2O 
and ions, including alkali metal cations, are intercalated.1921 With 
XAS, the intercalation of the cations was shown to be reversible 
when reducing the sample back to Ni(OH)2.21 Yet, the nuances 
of the phase transitions and structures are still a matter of 
debate.22,23 For instance, Garcia et al.24 have shown the 
formation of NiOO at 1.7 V vs. RHE with Raman spectroscopy. The peroxo band increases when using different electrolytes from 
LiOH to NaOH, KOH, and finally CsOH. In the same manner, the 
current density increased during the OER. They propose that the 
NiOOM species acts as an intermediate of the OER.


---

Description:
A catalyst with a complex surface structure, involved in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER).

Text:
Such 
findings show that the surface structure of the NiOOH catalyst is 
complex, which complicates an evaluation whether the NiOOH 
or NiOOH phase is more active towards the OER. Several 
studies exist claiming the NiOOH phase to be the optimum 
phase, yet several other studies challenge that view and report 
higher activities of the NiOOH phase.2527 In many more 
publications, the active phase has not been explicitly specified 
due to its instability under exsitu conditions, its often low 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2024db1l7 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000257651096 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
