Description:
A positively charged ion formed by the oxidation of water in positive ionmode ESI.

Text:
In posi
tive ionmode ESI (ESI), a positively charged capillary in
duces oxidation of water to form droplets containing H3O, 
while in negative ionmode ESI (ESI), a negatively charged 
capillary induces reduction of water to form droplets containing 
OH. As droplets evaporate, charge is moderated by an equilib
rium between the electrostatic repulsion of solvated ions and the 
surface tension of the droplet. If the electrostatic repulsion ex
ceeds the surface tension, charge carriers such as H3O or OH 
are ejected. Droplets therefore maintain a charge near the max
imum stable value, which can be calculated via the Rayleigh 
limit where max charge is zr, droplet radius is r, 0 is vacuum 
permittivity, and  is surface tension (eq. 1).


---

Description:
A solvated ion that can carry charge in ionization processes.

Text:
803 
(1) 
Native proteins are thought to ionize primarily via the 
charged residue model (CRM), where charge is transferred to 
the protein upon complete droplet desolvation and release into 
the gasphase.10 This leads to protein ions often adopting charge 
states near the Rayleigh limit of a proteinsized droplet. nMS is 
conducted with conditions to maximize the preservation of na
tivelike structure into the gasphase. While charge can be car
ried by solvated ions other than H3O or OH, such as metal 
salts, salts induce severe signal suppression of protein spectra.11 
ESI of proteins is therefore typically conducted under desalted 
conditions to form protonated or deprotonated protein ions.


---

Description:
Concentrated during droplet evaporation, leading to acidification.

Text:
As 
droplets evaporate, H3O or OH is concentrated, leading to 
acidification or basification, respectively.12 To counteract this 
effect and prevent protein denaturation, a volatile buffer, such 
as ammonium acetate, is often used, resulting in the droplet 
charge being carried by ammonium or acetate ions as opposed 
to H3O or OH. Ammonium acetate prevents large shifts in 
droplet pH and provides ionic strength, both of which maintain 
nativelike protein structure without degrading the resulting 
mass spectra.13 Despite widespread use and recognition of na
tive ESIMS, a molecular perspective of ESI has remained elu
sive, stemming from the experimental difficulty of characteriz
ing electrosprayed droplets with sizes and lifetimes in the micro 
to nanoscale.
