Description:
Can be captured using electrochemical technologies powered by renewable electricity.

Text:
Developing sustainable and energyefficient CO2 capture approaches is crucial for realizing netzero targets 
(1). Electrochemical CO2 capture technologies can be powered by renewable electricity as the sole energy 
source and are emerging as energyefficient alternatives to traditional CO2 capture processes that rely on 
thermal or pressure swings (2). Recent studies have shown that CO2 can be captured from simulated flue gases 
using simple supercapacitors through an effect known as supercapacitive swing adsorption (SSA) (3, 4). The 
device configuration typically features a symmetric supercapacitor cell consisting of two identical porous 
activated carbon electrodes and an aqueous electrolyte, with one electrode partially exposed to a CO2
containing gas and the other fully immersed in the electrolyte (Fig. 1A).


---

Description:
A gas that can dissolve in water to form carbonic acid.

Text:
The CO2 capture mechanism likely involves 
chargingdriven perturbations to the below equilibria, though more detailed mechanistic studies are needed at 
the molecular level (21) 
(1) CO2 (g)  CO2 (aq) 
(2) CO2 (aq)  H2O (l)  H2CO3
 (aq) 
(3) H2CO3
 (aq)  H2O (l)  HCO3
 (aq)  H3O (aq) 
(4) HCO3
 (aq)  H2O (l)  CO3
2 (aq)  H3O (aq) 
When the gasexposed carbon electrode obtains electrons either during the negative charging of pristine 
states or the discharging of positively charged states, CO2derived (bi)carbonate ions (e.g., HCO3) migrate 
away from the gasexposed carbon electrode, leading to a local depletion of CO2 which drives CO2 capture 
(Fig. 1A) (21, 22).


---

Description:
Involved in capture and release processes at electrodes in supercapacitors.

Text:
However, our groups recent mechanistic studies on SSA suggested that there are competing 
CO2 capture and release processes at the two electrodes in supercapacitors, with the competition becoming 
apparent at slow charging conditions or during long voltage holds (15, 22). Specifically, we proposed that CO2 
capture at the gasexposed carbon electrode is accompanied by CO2 release at the electrolyteimmersed carbon 
electrode, reducing the overall CO2 adsorption capacities of the device (22). In pursuit of enhanced CO2 capture 
performance, strategies to reduce the competing processes are needed. Here we therefore employed nonporous metallic zinc as the electrolyteimmersed counter electrode to 
break the supercapacitor symmetry (Fig. 1B) and to suppress the competing processes in conventional 
symmetric supercapacitors.
