Description:
Used in green hydrogen production as an energy vector.

Text:
In light of pressing environmental issues such as pol
lution and the greenhouse effect, there is a necessity to
search for clean energy sources. This has led to the explo
ration of alternatives to fossil fuelderived energy, such as
biomassderived energy and green hydrogen production as
an energy vector. Consequently, the global shift towards
renewable energy requires innovative solutions for effi
cient energy storage and conversion, prompting increased
development of electric devices for this purpose. These
devices rely on efficient catalytic materials at the electrodes
to produce or convert fuels.


---

Description:
Produced through alkaline water electrolysis at the cathode during the hydrogen evolution reaction.

Text:
1
Hydrogen production through alkaline water electrol
ysis involves the splitting of water using an electric current
in a basic medium, where the hydrogen evolution reaction
(HER) occurs at the cathode and the oxygen evolution
reaction (OER) at the anode. However, the OER remains
responsible for the major part of the electricity cost of
water electrolysis, mainly because of thermodynamics in
combination with significant overpotentials and sluggish
kinetics. 2
Various catalysts have been proposed over the past
few decades to enhance the efficiency of the OER. While
some noble metalbased catalysts have shown promising
 Both authors have contributed equally to this investigation
stephan.steinmannenslyon.fr (S.N.


---

Description:
Atoms are randomly distributed between the nickel layers in NiOOH.

Text:
12
NiOOH primarily exists in four different phases, with
NiOOH identified as the most active for catalytic activ
ities. 5, 13, 14 The crystalline structure of NiOOH is
not fully understood but is generally described as NiOOH
layers bonded by hydrogen bonds. 1517 Experimental
and theoretical studies suggest that hydrogen atoms are
randomly distributed between the nickel layers. 16, 18
In the mechanism proposed by Fleischmann et al. 19,
20, the NiIIINiII transition is thought to be key in the
electrochemical behavior of nickelbased oxides during so
called indirect oxidation reactions. In these reactions, the
electron is transferred to NiIII, instead of being directly
injected in the electrical circuit.
