Description:
A metal with high specific capacity used in solid-state batteries, but prone to void formation at the solid-state electrolyte interface during discharge.

Text:
The high specific capacity of lithium metal and its compatibility with various solidstate 
electrolytes (SSEs) has focused efforts on developing lithium metal solidstate batteries (SSBs) (14). However, a critical limitation of lithium metal anodes for SSBs is the loss of contact at the SSE interface 
during lithium stripping (i.e., battery discharge) due to void formation (1,2,5,6). The formation of voids is 
detrimental because they cause high interfacial impedance and current focusing during charging, resulting 
in lithium filament growth, short circuiting, and cell failure (710). The mechanisms governing void formation are complex, and the process is affected by current 
density, stack pressure, chemomechanics, and other factors (7,9,1115). During stripping, vacancies are 
formed in the lithium metal at the SSE interface due to Li transfer into the SSE.


---

Description:
A metal with relatively low self-diffusivity and a bulk yield strength of 0.8 MPa.

Text:
Since lithium metal exhibits 
relatively low selfdiffusivity (1010 cm2 s1) (1619), the vacancies tend to accumulate to nucleate voids 
(Fig. 1a). Higher current densities increase the vacancy formation rate and can thus accelerate void 
formation (9,13,16,20). The application of stack pressure can deform soft lithium metal (bulk yield strength 
of 0.8 MPa) to promote contact retention during stripping, but stack pressures greatly exceeding the yield 
strength have been shown to be required at moderate current densities to prevent void formation (7 MPa 
for 1 mA cm2) (7,9). Moreover, lithium shows heightened yield strength at submicron length scales, which 
may result in even higher stack pressures needed when using SSE interfaces with nanoscale roughness (21
24). Critically, stack pressures must be less than 1 MPa for practical applications (2527).


---

Description:
Used in anodes that retain interfacial contact at high current densities and low stack pressures.

Text:
These factors 
urgently motivate the development of lithium anodes that retain interfacial contact at high current densities 
and low stack pressures. A variety of interfacial engineering approaches has been pursued to improve the performance of 
lithium metal anodes in SSBs. Interlayers comprising other materials, such as carbon or lithium metal 
alloys, have been shown to enable improved performance. In general, these interlayer or composite 
materials enhance Li transport toward the SSE interface, homogenize current distributions, and can help 
maintain interfacial contact (2832). However, these approaches have primarily utilized hard or brittle 
interlayer materials to passively control Li transport, and some of these materials undergo transformations 
themselves (3335). These approaches therefore usually require stack pressures similar to that needed for 
Li metal to maintain interfacial contact (see Fig. S1).
