Description:
A compound involved in the carbon cycle and targeted for reduction to store renewable energy.

Text:
The conversion of CO2 into energydense carbonbased products, and hence the closure of the carbon 
cycle in a circular approach, is a very attractive solution for the reduction of the atmospheric CO2 
content and for the storage of fluctuating renewable energy into chemical energy. Various 
technologies to reduce CO2, such as thermochemical, electrochemical, photochemical and biochemical 
processes have been explored in recent years.


---

Description:
Involved in the electrochemical reduction reaction with controllable selectivity and efficiency.

Text:
The electrochemical CO2 reduction reaction (CO2RR) is 
particularly attractive due to i) its efficiency, ii) the possibility of using renewable electricity, iii) its 
controllable selectivity by adjusting the electrode potential, and iv) the use of compact, highly efficient, 
modular and scalable reaction systems for the synthesis of a variety of products.14 
Among the various CO2RR products, CO has been considered one of the most commercially viable 
because of its kinetically accessible process (twoprotons and twoelectrons reaction) and high 
efficiency.5,6 CO is a very versatile raw material in the industry it is the main component of synthesis 
gas (a mixture of CO and H2) and utilized to produce a series of essential organic chemical products 
and intermediates including alcohols, acids, anhydrides, esters, aldehydes, ethers, amines, alkanes, 
and alkenes.


---

Description:
A stable compound requiring catalysts to overcome slow kinetics for its reduction.

Text:
For example, it can be used as an intermediate product for the further reduction to 
ethylene7,8 However, due to the high stability of CO2 and the requirement of electron and proton
transfers for its transformation, catalysts need to overcome the slow kinetics, yielding low 
overpotential and high product selectivity. Silver (Ag) has been the metal of choice as catalyst for the CO2RR to CO due to its high activity, 
selectivity,5 and drastically lower cost compared to gold (Au). Having the second optimal binding 
energy for the key intermediate of COOH, which is essential in the CO2RR process to CO, Ag is slightly 
less efficient than Au for CO2RR to CO.9 Even though Ag is not a CRM (critical raw material), its 
considerable cost is a burden for upscaling.


---

Description:
Involved in electrochemical reduction reactions over Ag-based catalysts.

Text:
To facilitate the industrial application of the 
electrochemical CO2RR over Agbased catalysts, research efforts need to be directed towards the 
minimization of the amount of Ag in the catalytic system, while maintaining the overall activity and 
selectivity (i.e., increasing the mass activity), while ensuring industryrelevant manufacturing routes. Many studies focused on the effects of the catalyst particle size,10 morphology,11 nanostructuring,12
14support, alloying and porosity,15 on the CO2RR efficiency. However, synthetic processes to prepare 
the catalytic materials are often challenging and costly to scale up. Furthermore, materials were often 
tested in simple Hcells that are limited by the slow mass transfer of CO2 in the liquid electrolyte and 
are not relevant for future commercialization.
