Description:
The primary component of natural gas, methane clathrates, and shale gas.

Text:
In the foreseeable future, carbonbased fuels will continue dominating our energy consumption. Development of robust catalytic materials to meet our daily energy needs is arguably the most 
critical scientific and engineering challenge.17 Methane (CH4), as the primary component of 
natural gas, methane clathrates,8, 9 and shale gas,10 is poised to become the most crucial 
hydrocarbon feedstock for fuel and chemical synthesis, providing an economical alternative to the 
declining petroleum reserves. Despite the vast availability of methane, it requires a complex 
infrastructure for secure transportation, storage, and distribution, limiting efficient usage of the 
natural resources.


---

Description:
The second most abundant greenhouse gas with a potential to contribute to global warming approximately 25 times greater than carbon dioxide.

Text:
In addition, methane is the second most abundant greenhouse gas with a 
potential to contribute to global warming approximately 25 times greater than carbon dioxide 
(CO2) over the next one hundred year.11 Therefore, there is an urgent need to discover lowcarbon 
footprint methods to selectively convert methane to transportable highenergydensity liquid fuels 
and valueadded chemical feedstocks. Although methane conversion pathways are desirable, the technologies are not yet 
competitive to petroleumbased production of chemicals and fuels. Industrially, methane 
conversion could be realized in large scale through steam methane reforming to produce syngas,12 
a mixture of carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrogen gas (H2), which was then used as feedstocks in 
the FischerTropsch synthesis process13, 14 to generate liquid hydrocarbons.


---

Description:
A compound involved in direct conversion processes such as oxidative coupling and dehydroaromatization.

Text:
A variety of heterogeneous catalysts have been explored as catalytic 
materials for direct methane conversion, including oxidative coupling of methane over metal 
oxides,17, 18 nonoxidative methane dehydroaromatization using zeolitesupported metal 
catalysts,19, 20 and direct conversion through CC coupling on metallic surfaces.21 Unfortunately, 
no practical catalysts exist today for direct methane conversion due to high CH bond activation 
barriers andor rapid catalyst deactivation by coke contamination.2224 
Recently, Marcinkowski et al.25 and Hannagan et al.26 experimentally demonstrated that 
single atom alloys (SAAs), atomically dispersing a minimum amount of reactive metal atoms in 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025v4h7d ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000250039355 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
