Description:
Molecular oxygen that is essential for microbial proliferation and affected by environmental fluctuations.

Text:
13
Microbes in natural habitats are exposed to external environmental changes and have evolved strategies
14
to adapt to the surrounding conditions1. They proliferate in fluctuating environments on different time
15
scales with different parameters, such as the availability of molecular oxygen (O2)2, nutrients3, pH4,
16
temperature5, and light6. These fluctuating environmental conditions are pervasive, including the ocean3
17
and soil5, as well as in animal hosts, such as in the nasal passage4, lung7 and intestine8. Fluctuating
18
environments are also prevalent in biotechnological cultivation setups. Industrial largescale bioreactors,
19
for instance, stir large volumes of culture broth, often resulting in inefficient mixing and heterogeneous
20
distribution of O2 and nutrients, which could potentially lead to yield losses911.


---

Description:
A primary electron acceptor for aerobic respiration in many microorganisms.

Text:
Investigating microbial
21
behavior in fluctuating environments will therefore improve our understanding of microbial adaptation
22
to external environmental changes and may offer insights into how to enhance efficiency in industrial
23
biotechnology. 24
Among the various environmental conditions, the availability of O2 is one of the most critical for
25
microbial growth and physiology. O2 is intricately linked with a multitude of microbial processes,
26
including iron homeostasis12, oxidative stress13, the development of pathogenic infections14 and biofilm
27
growth15. In addition to these microbial processes associated with O2 availability, O2 is also valuable
28
as a primary electron acceptor for aerobic respiration in many microorganisms.


---

Description:
A molecule that influences metabolic pathways by enabling aerobic respiration in facultative anaerobes.

Text:
In particular, facultative
29
anaerobes, which are capable of growing under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, adapt to changing
30
O2 environments by switching their metabolic pathways between aerobic respiration and anaerobic
31
respirationfermentation16,17. This ability of facultative anaerobes to adapt to different O2 environments
32
has been extensively studied under singleshift O2 environments. Previous studies have primarily focused
33
on examining intracellular adaptation, such as transcriptome16, protein synthesis18, metabolome19, flux
34
balance20, and phenotypic adaptation like growth fitness21. These studies have mostly been conducted in
35
conventional cultivation setups, including microtiter plates, shaking flasks, and bioreactors. However, there
36
is a lack of understanding regarding the cellular capability to adapt to rapidly fluctuating O2 environments.
