Description:
A material used in nanoporous atomically thin membranes for selective gas transport.

Text:
Highperformance membranes have immense potential to improve carbon capture efficiency1,2 if 
they can be designed to yield a high CO2 selectivity and a high CO2 permeance.3 Nanoporous 
atomically thin membranes (NATM), particularly porous graphene, have attracted substantial 
attention.49 A single translocation event across the zerodimensional pore determines selective 
transport.1012 Attractive gas separation performance has been observed,7,1319 with selectivity 
arising from relative mass,8,20 molecular size,15,2128 and binding affinity16,19,29,30 differences. An 
accurate prediction of capture performance from graphene pores is needed to highlight the true 
potential of NATM. This will help design improved membranes for carbon capture. Accurate and rapid computation of capture performance from realistic CO2selective pores, 
mimicking those formed in experiments, is needed.


---

Description:
Material with scale pores prepared by oxidation for CO2 separation.

Text:
scale pores in graphene for CO2 separation 
are prepared by oxidation involving controlled lattice gasification.5,22,3137 The resulting pore edges 
are passivated with O functional groups.3840 These groups evolve from the chemisorption of a single 
epoxy followed by an organization of epoxies in a cluster (Supplementary Section 1).37 When the 
cluster size is sufficiently large, strainmediated CC bond cleavage followed by gasification yields a 
carbon vacancy defect (pore) with ether41 and semiquinones (CO) decorated at the pore edge.40,42
44 Pores formed in this way have yielded attractive carbon capture performances, however, pores 
terminated with CO have not been explored by computational studies.


---

Description:
Material with pores studied for gas transport and separation.

Text:
Extensive computational studies have been conducted to analyze gas transport from graphene 
pores10,45,46 since attractive gas separation from graphene pores was first predicted in the year 
2009.4 For simplicity, early studies probed pore edges devoid of functional groups and assumed 
rigid apertures with a fixed porelimiting diameter.4752 Other studies probed pore edges passivated 
with atomic H, N, or O, however, gas transport was still investigated, assuming a rigid aperture with 
a fixed PLD.4,49,5358 When lattice flexibility and vibrational dynamics were included, PLD 
modulation59 and enlargement60 were predicted, resulting in an increased gas permeance.11 Pores 
decorated with the CO group have not been studied. One expects the pore edge CO group to 
interact strongly with polar molecules such as CO2 and even flipflop across the plane of the pore.
