Description:
A high-energy isomer of acetylene with a very low barrier for isomerization.

Text:
Vinylidene (H2CC) is a highenergy isomer of acetylene (HCCH), and isomerization between 
the two species represents the simplest example of a 1,2hydrogen shift reaction.1 Vinylidene has 
been the focus of many theoretical211 and experimental1218 studies owing to its very low barrier 
for isomerization to acetylene (0.1 eV),19 which opens the possibility for coupling between 
vibrational states of vinylidene and highly excited acetylene. Because of the low isomerization 
barrier, the vibration of vinylidene can be strongly anharmonic, especially for modes related to the 
isomerization coordinate. In fact, such departures from the harmonic limit encode the 
isomerization dynamics.


---

Description:
A highly reactive transient species subject to nonadiabatic effects.

Text:
Moreover, the ground and lowlying electronic states of vinylidene are 
subject to nonadiabatic effects including intersystem crossings, conical intersections, and 
HerzbergTeller (HT) coupling.17, 20 While neutral vinylidene is a highly reactive transient species 
and thus difficult to study directly, its anionic counterpart H2CC is stable and straightforward to 
produce in the gas phase. Previous experimental studies on vinylidene have taken advantage of the 
stability of the anion by using anion photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) to measure the effect 
isomerization plays on the neutral vibrational structure.12, 17, 2022 In this paper, we aim to further 
study the vinylidene system by infrared (IR) vibrational excitation of cryogenically cooled anions 
paired with slow electron velocitymap imaging (IR cryoSEVI).


---

Description:
Neutral molecules formed upon photodetachment that are stable up to a few microseconds.

Text:
However, later Coulomb explosion imaging experiments from the Vager 
group showed that neutral vinylidene molecules formed upon photodetachment were stable up to 
a few microseconds.14 More recently, our group used cryoSEVI to measure the ! ! PES at higher resolution than the original work and found no evidence of anomalous lifetime 
broadening.17 That study did however find nominally forbidden transitions involving the 5 
(antisymmetric CH2 stretch) and 6 (CH2 rock) modes that could gain intensity through HT 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025mcbt4 ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000215592112 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BYNC 4.0
