Description:
The metal of choice for interconnects in semiconductor chips.

Text:
Copper is the current metal of choice for interconnects between devices in semiconductor 
chips. The copper interconnects are formed by filling recessed features in lowk oxides with 
copper using either atomic layer deposition (ALD) for the smallest features, or 
electrochemical deposition (ECD) for larger features.1 ECD requires an electrically 
conducting surface, and ALD is often used to make a seed layer for the ECD process.2 While 
ECD has become the most widely used method for Cu deposition for interconnects due to its 
ability to deposit highly conformal films with excellent step coverage in highaspectratio 
structures, wetchemical techniques cannot be easily integrated in vacuumcluster tools.


---

Description:
Reduced on the cathode surface using electrons in the electrodeposition process.

Text:
ECD 
is also associated with the generation of large volumes of wastewater contaminated with metal 
ions that must be managed.3 A transition from wetchemical electrodeposition to vacuum
based techniques is therefore desired. The working principle behind ECD is reduction of copper ions on the cathode surface using 
electrons supplied by a power supply. We have recently presented a vacuumbased chemical 
vapor deposition (CVD) technique that mimics this process and is referred to as electron CVD 
(eCVD).4 The eCVD process uses free electrons in a plasma discharge to reduce metal 
centres in chemisorbed precursor molecules.4 By applying a positive bias to the substrate 
surface, it attracts the plasma electrons, enabling them to reduce metal precursors on the 
substrate surface.


---

Description:
Explored in eCVD using betadiketonate precursors.

Text:
The eCVD process can thus be regarded as a dry form of ECD with the 
potential to replace the wetchemical methods, allowing for integration in vacuum cluster 
tools. The eCVD has been demonstrated with iron, cobalt and nickel,4 but not yet for copper. In 
this study we explore eCVD of copper using the betadiketonate precursors Cu(hfac)2 and 
Cu(acac)2. Previous eCVD studies indicate that alternating the supply of the metal precursor 
and plasma electrons tends to yield higherquality films.6 By experimenting with pulse and 
purge times while studying the deposition in situ by a quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) 
sensor, we find conditions where the deposition chemistry seems to be selflimiting. We thus 
propose that we have demonstrated eALD of copper.
