Description:
Used as protective hard coatings in engineering and manufacturing industries.

Text:
Protective coating materials are commonly grown by physical or chemical vapor deposition 
(PVD or CVD) techniques on cutting tools. This to improve the service life of the tools during 
the high temperatures, friction, wear, corrosion and oxidation leading to mechanical and 
thermal fatigue, during applications such as turning, milling, and drilling.1 Such coatings have 
been used in the form of nitrides, oxynitrides, carbides, carbonitrides, borides, boronitrides and 
oxides, where a lot of comparisons2 between PVD and CVD have been made. It can be noted 
that many of the nitride, oxide, and carbide protective hard coatings produced for the 
engineering and manufacturing industry are highly relevant also for the microelectronics field, 
e.g., as dielectrics, diffusion barriers,3 and gate oxides4.


---

Description:
AlN has good miscibility with them, making it interesting for ternary materials.

Text:
AlN is one example of such a material 
used in microelectronic and optoelectronic applications because of its wide bandgap (6.2 eV)5, 
high dielectric constant (9)6, high electrical resistivity (10111013 cm)7, a good thermal 
conductivity (2.85 WKcm)8 and piezoelectric properties9. AlN also has good miscibility with other nitrides, making it interesting to many ternary 
materials with e.g., Ga10, In11, Ti12 or Hf13, thereby increasing the range of its possible 
applications. One such ternary material is metastable AlxTi1xN where the cubic rock salt 
structure of TiN is preserved while varying Al content. AlxTi1xN primarily finds use as a hard 
material in protective coatings, often on cemented carbide tool inserts due to its excellent 
resistance against corrosion and oxidation, and high hardness.1416 These properties can be 
tuned with the chemical composition.


---

Description:
Metastable high Al-content AlxTi1xN synthesized by CVD.

Text:
The synthesis of nitrides in the form of metastable high Alcontent AlxTi1xN by CVD, where 
the cubic structure of TiN is preserved while adding AlN, i.e., increasing x, up to at least 0.9,17 
has gained increasing interest in recent years18,19. The presence of AlN increases oxidation 
resistance of the formed AlxTi1xN film by converting to an Al2O3 layer as the coating heats up 
resulting in increased oxidation resistance.20 Different techniques such as PVD that include 
reactive sputtering21,22, ion plating23, and cathodic arc evaporation24, and CVD22,25,26 have been 
employed in deposition of AlxTi1xN as a wear resistant coating. Albeit none of these techniques 
can combine precise film thickness control, high conformality and high uniformity in film 
quality and composition over large areas.
