Description:
A durable transition element with antimicrobial activity, used as antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal.

Text:
Metallic Silver (Ag) is the 67th abundant among the elements and is a durable transition element. Due 
to its rarity and attractive metallic luster silver has been used as jewelry, currency coins and other 
valuable items. In ancient times silver utensils were used to keep the water and wine clean. Silver 
finds its applications in medicine, as due to its antimicrobial activity silver is used as antibacterial, 
antiviral, and antifungal. In the 17th and 18th century Silve Nitrate (AgNO3) was applied to treat ulcers 
1. 1 Silver Nitrate was introduced as an eye solution to prevent conjunctivitis in small children 2. Silver Sulfadiazine in its tropical form is used to treat burn wounds 3.


---

Description:
Exposure to high concentration may result in deposition in the body causing irreversible discoloration of skin and eyes, a condition called Argyria.

Text:
Besides all these applications, exposure to high concentration of silver for prolonged periods may 
result in deposition of silver in the body, which may further cause irreversible discoloration of skin and 
eyes, this condition is called Argyria 4. Due to the hazards and high cost associated with silver its 
medical interest started diminishing around the mid1900s. Antibiotics like Penicillin and 
Cephalosporin started to replace the medicinal interest gained by silver due to its low cost and low 
risk associated with its usage. The interest of silver as medicinal drug was revived because of the 
largescale increase in the number of multiple drug resistant bacteria which was the result of 
exploitation of antibacterials.


---

Description:
Has antimicrobial properties and enhanced reactivity when synthesized at the nanoscale.

Text:
Silver performed excellent due to its antimicrobial properties and when 
enhanced using Nanotechnology the limitation of silver in its pure state were overcome. These nano 
synthesized silver materials were having smaller size (in nm range) which enhanced its surface area, 
that in turn improves its reactivity. AgNPs showed biocidal action by slowly releasing Ag that results in 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025kclgf ORCID httpsorcid.org0009000810727074 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
