Description:
The chief constituent of natural gas and a major contributor to global warming.

Text:
of gold nano cluster as cocatalyst with TiO2 nano cluster reduces the energy gap for 
CC coupling reaction step in ethane formation reaction. The CH activation reaction on Au6TiO2 nano cluster, the 
reaction energy is almost the same as that on the bare TiO2 nano cluster. The final desorption energy of free ethane from 
the adsorbed surface is less in case Au6TiO2 nano cluster compared to TiO2 nano cluster. Introduction 
Methane (CH4), the chief constituent of natural gas and 
byproduct of oil recovery is a major contributor to 
global warming almost 25 times stronger than that of 
CO2.There has been increased drive on research for the 
direct conversion of CH4 to valueadded hydrocarbons 
with high industrial potential like methanol (CH3OH), 
ethanol (CH3CH2OH), ethane (C2H6), ethylene (C2H4) 
etc.


---

Description:
A compound with strong CH bonds (434 kJ mol1) that requires high temperature for degradation.

Text:
It is important to design green reactions that pro
vide sustainable energy, cleaner environment and lesser 
emission of greenhouse gases in the coming future. The 
global reliance on nonrenewable sources of energy has 
contributed to the growing environmental and climate 
challenges. Solardriven energy generation through 
heterogeneous photocatalysis represents a sustainable 
solution to these challenges.15 Photocatalytic coupling 
of methane to ethane by using solar energy at room 
temperature is a promising approach for conversion of 
methane (CH4) to ethane (C2H6). The thermo catalytic degradation of sp3 hybridized 
highly 
symmetric 
CH4 
with 
strong 
CH 
bonds 
(434 kJ mol1) requires very high temperature and also 
low selectivity in products and CO2 emission.


---

Description:
Involved in conversion to ethane via a solar energy driven process.

Text:
The 
current study involves methane to ethane conversion 
via solar energy driven process on TiO2 nano cluster as 
the photocatalyst The TiO2 nano cluster used in our 
study was taken from anatase TiO2.19 The anatase 
TiO2 with (001) facet has been shown to be more active 
Figure 1 TiO2 cluster with three positions for oxygen removal 
marked as O1, O2 and O3 (Blue color atoms Titanium and Red 
color atoms  Oxygen 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025mkjvl ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000193231710 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
