Description:
Important arylated molecules used in the synthesis of natural products, bioactive compounds, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, and modern synthetic materials.

Text:
. Modern organic synthesis methodologies aim to efficiently construct important molecular frameworks 
with the fewest possible steps, optimal convergence, minimal functional group transformations, and 
importantly reliance on simple, divergent, commercially available or readily accessible starting 
materials, while often favoring transition metalfree approaches and using friendly reagents. With 
these ambitious goals in mind, our program aims to focus on the synthesis of important arylated 
molecules, specifically (unsymmetrical) diarylmethanes and diarylketones. 1, 2 
Diarylmethanes and diarylketones have attracted considerable interest due to their unique structural, 
chemical, and physical properties. They are essential in the synthesis of natural products, bioactive 
compounds, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals, and modern synthetic materials. An important focus in 
organic synthesis is the modular and efficient construction of these scaffolds, particularly their 
unsymmetrical variants containing two distinct aryl groups.


---

Description:
Synthesized using methods such as Friedel-Crafts, Grignard, and transition metal-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions.

Text:
Considerable efforts have been dedicated to the synthesis of diarylmethanes and diarylketones using 
methods such as FriedelCraftstype reactions, Grignardtype reactions, and transition metalcatalyzed 
crosscoupling reactions, including SuzukiMiyaura, Negishi, Kumada, and Fukuyama couplings (see 
Figure 1). While these elegant methods play a pivotal role in chemical transformations, they are often 
limited by challenges such as regioselectivity, air and moisture sensitivity, and the use of excess 
amounts of reagents which associated with the use of additives. Additionally, these reactions are 
frequently incompatible with unprotected functional groups. Although several promising stateoftheart approaches have been introduced, there remains a need 
for the development of a simple, complementary, and comprehensive methodology for the site
selective and substrateoriented synthesis of unsymmetrical diarylmethane and diarylketone 
frameworks.


---

Description:
Compounds that can be synthesized with benzylic deuterium isotope labeling.

Text:
Importantly, there is growing demand for methodologies that enable the synthesis of rare, 
yet valuable, benzylic deuteriumisotopelabeled diarylmethanes.
