Description:
Crystalline inorganic materials with a tetrahedral framework structure used in drug delivery applications.

Text:
Among many other 
classes of porous materials, zeolites, crystalline inorganic materials with a tetrahedral 
framework structure, have received considerable attention as materials for drug delivery 
applications.2,4,5 In aluminosilicate zeolites, the tetrahedral framework sites are occupied by Si 
and Al atoms, with a general framework composition Si1xAlxO2 (x  0.5).6 The SiAl ratio 
determines the framework charge and, consequently, the amount of positively charged species 
that are required for charge neutrality. Out of the variety of known zeolite frameworks types, 
zeolites having the FAU (faujasite) topology are particularly widely used in industrial 
processes, especially in catalysis and separation.7 Due to their good availability, large pore 
size, and the possibility to incorporate various species as extraframework cations, they have 
also been the focus of many drug delivery investigations.


---

Description:
FAU-type zeolites with SiAl ratios below 1.5 are used for drug storage and delivery.

Text:
FAUtype zeolites with SiAl ratios 
below 1.5 are dubbed zeolite X. Zeolite X samples exchanged with different cations were 
investigated for the storage and delivery of the anticancer drug cyclophosphamide,8 the anti
inflammatory and cytostatic 6mercaptopurine,9 the antiosteoporosis drugs risedronate and 
zoledronate,10 and the antibiotic ciprofloxacin,11 among other species. More siliconrich FAU
type zeolites are labelled zeolite Y, they were studied, for example, as host materials for the 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug ibuprofen12 and for the antibiotics sulfadiazine13 and 
isoniazid.14 Looking beyond drug delivery, highly siliceous zeolite Y, which possesses 
hydrophobic properties, could find use as adsorbent for the removal of pharmaceuticals and 
other organic contaminants from wastewaters.1518 
5fluorouracil (C4H3FN2O2, CAS No.


---

Description:
Materials investigated for 5FU storage and release.

Text:
51218, Figure 1, abbreviated 5FU in the following) is 
a cytostatic drug that is used in the treatment of various types of cancer; it is typically 
administered intravenously. Due to its limited bioavailability and low absorption, high doses 
are required, often resulting in severe side effects. Moreover, high dosages can promote the 
development of chemoresistance to 5FU, reducing its therapeutic efficacy.19 In order to 
mitigate these drawbacks, the potential applicability of various materials as 5FU carriers has 
been investigated.20,21 The first investigation of 5FU storage and release using zeolites was 
published by Datt et al.
