Description:
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by radiolysis of water can react with dissolved organochlorides.

Text:
These species react rapidly and unselectively with organic compounds to form 
reactive intermediates, which is difficult to measure.14 Elementary reactionbased 
mathematical models that integrate the kinetics of each chemical reaction with reaction 
pathways, and the numerical solutions of their related ordinary differential equations 
(ODEs), can predict the timedependent distribution of starting materials and reactive 
intermediates.15 However, to precisely predict the yield of each species at a given time, the 
reaction rate of each elementary reaction should be known before calculating the numerical 
solution. In the previous work16, we showed that reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by 
radiolysis of water can react with dissolved organochlorides, leading to the formation of a 
potent oxidant species.


---

Description:
Reacts with a carbon-centered radical to form a peroxyl radical.

Text:
The proposed mechanism is that an aqueous electron generated 
from water radiolysis reacts with an organochloride to form a chloride ion and a carbon
centred radical. The radical reacts with dissolved molecular oxygen to form a peroxyl 
radical, which is a strong oxidant. The results show that the oxidation depends on the 
concentration of organochloride higher concentration of organochloride leads to more 
pronounced oxidation. We hypothesize that the molar ratio of dissolved oxygen to 
organochloride affects the yield of the peroxyradical, since oxygen can compete with 
organochloride to react with aqueous electrons.17 
In this work, we propose a reaction network which includes key reactions of the pathway 
of peroxylradical formation.


---

Description:
A reactant that influences the yield of peroxyradical in the reaction network.

Text:
Based on the proposed reaction network, we have developed 
a kinetic model using previously developed ChemFit software.18 By numerically solving the 
system of ODEs, we simulated the yield of peroxyradical at different starting concentrations 
of oxygen and organochloride (Scheme 1). The simulation suggested that, at a fixed 
concentration of organochloride, the yield of ROS increased with decreasing concentration 
httpsdoi.org10.26434chemrxiv2025cq53z ORCID httpsorcid.org0000000226266371 Content not peerreviewed by ChemRxiv. License CC BY 4.0
