Description:
Hydrophobic and mechanically stronger material used separately in different applications.

Text:
Soft materials such as hydrogels and elastomers have become indispensable in diverse modern 
technologies, including stretchable electronics, biomedical devices, microfluidics, drug 
delivery, soft robotics and so on, owing to their exceptional properties like softness, 
stretchability, ease of handling, and biocompatibility 12. However, hydrogels and silicones 
exhibit contrasting characteristics, for example, hydrogel is hydrophilic, whereas silicone is 
hydrophobic and mechanically stronger, for which they are utilized separately in different 
applications. So, their integration into a single material allows the potential to synergistically 
combine their dissimilar features in one heterogeneous material with enhanced 
functionalities345. For example, polyacrylamide (PAM) hydrogel which is a tough, 
flexible and transparent hydrogel, is synthesized by crosslinking the acrylamide monomer in 
electrolyte solutions such as KCl, NaCl and LiCl to make ionic conductors6.


---

Description:
Serves as a soft dielectric and provides mechanical support.

Text:
Thus, combining 
PAM with silicone elastomer creates a multifunctional material PAM functions as an electrical 
conductor and silicone serves as a soft dielectric as well as provides mechanical support. This 
PAMsilicone hybrid material is utilized in fabricating soft ionic devices such as actuators, 
ionic skins, touchpads and so on 78. Similarly, poly(2hydroxyethyl methacrylate) 
(pHEMA) hydrogel popularly used in biomedical applications such as tissue engineering, drug 
delivery, cell proliferation and so on can also be integrated with siliconebased materials to 
create a novel material with improved features910. However, the inherent incompatibility 
between hydrogel and silicone limits their integration in many practical applications. Traditional bonding mechanisms are not straightforward and require complicated structural 
modifications of both materials, which may be undesirable for many applications.
