Hydrogen is a chemical element; it has symbol H and atomic number 1. It is the lightest element and, at standard conditions, is a gas of diatomic molecules with the formula H2, sometimes called dihydrogen, hydrogen gas, molecular hydrogen, or simply hydrogen. It is colorless, odorless, non-toxic, and highly combustible. Constituting about 75% of all normal matter, hydrogen is the most abundant chemical element in the universe. Stars, including the Sun, mainly consist of hydrogen in a plasma state, while on Earth, hydrogen is found in water, organic compounds, as the gas H2 (dihydrogen), and in other molecular forms. The most common isotope of hydrogen (protium, 1H) consists of one proton, one electron, and no neutrons.
In the early universe, the formation of hydrogen's protons occurred in the first second after the Big Bang; neutral hydrogen atoms only formed about 370,000 years later during the recombination epoch as the universe expanded and plasma had cooled enough for electrons to remain bound to protons. Hydrogen gas was first produced artificially in the early 16th century by the reaction of acids with metals. Henry Cavendish, in 1766–81, identified hydrogen gas as a distinct substance and discovered its property of producing water when burned; hence its name means "water-former" in Greek. Understanding the colors of light absorbed and emitted by hydrogen was a crucial part of developing quantum mechanics.
Hydrogen, typically nonmetallic except under extreme pressure, readily forms covalent bonds with most nonmetals, contributing to the formation of compounds like water and various organic substances. Its role is crucial in acid-base reactions, which mainly involve proton exchange among soluble molecules. In ionic compounds, hydrogen can take the form of either a negatively charged anion, where it is known as hydride, or as a positively charged cation, H+, called a proton. Although tightly bonded to water molecules, protons strongly affect the behavior of aqueous solutions, as reflected in the importance of pH.  Hydride on the other hand, is rarely observed because it tends to deprotonate solvents, yielding  H2.
Nearly all hydrogen production is done by transforming fossil fuels, particularly steam reforming of natural gas. It can also be produced from electricity by electrolysis, however this process is more expensive. Its main industrial uses include fossil fuel processing and ammonia production. Emerging uses for hydrogen include the use of fuel cells to generate electricity.