Vitamin D is a group of structurally related, fat-soluble compounds responsible for increasing intestinal absorption of calcium, magnesium, and phosphate, along with numerous other biological functions. In humans, the most important compounds within this group are vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) and vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol).
Unlike the other twelve vitamins, vitamin D is only conditionally essential - in a preindustrial society people had adequate exposure to sunlight and the vitamin was a hormone, as the primary natural source of vitamin D was the synthesis of cholecalciferol in the lower layers of the skin's epidermis, triggered by a photochemical reaction with ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation from sunlight. Cholecalciferol and ergocalciferol can also be obtained through diet and dietary supplements. Foods such as the flesh of fatty fish are good natural sources of vitamin D; there are few other foods where it naturally appears in significant amounts. In the U.S. and other countries, cow's milk and plant-based milk substitutes are fortified with vitamin D3, as are many breakfast cereals. Government dietary recommendations typically assume that all of a person's vitamin D is taken by mouth, given the potential for insufficient sunlight exposure due to urban living, cultural choices for the amount of clothing worn when outdoors, and use of sunscreen because of concerns about safe levels of sunlight exposure, including the risk of skin cancer.: 362–394  However, for most people, skin synthesis contributes more than diet sources.
Cholecalciferol is converted in the liver to calcifediol (also known as calcidiol or 25-hydroxycholecalciferol), while ergocalciferol is converted to ercalcidiol (25-hydroxyergocalciferol). These two vitamin D metabolites, collectively referred to as 25-hydroxyvitamin D or 25(OH)D, are measured in serum to assess a person's vitamin D status. Calcifediol is further hydroxylated by the kidneys and certain immune cells to form calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol; 1,25(OH)2D), the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol attaches to vitamin D receptors, which are nuclear receptors found in various tissues throughout the body.
The discovery of the vitamin in 1922 was due to an effort to identify the dietary deficiency in children with rickets. Adolf Windaus received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1928 for his work on the constitution of sterols and their connection with vitamins. Present day, government food fortification programs in some countries and recommendations to consume vitamin D supplements are intended to prevent or treat vitamin D deficiency rickets and osteomalacia. There are many other health conditions linked to vitamin D deficiency. However, the evidence for the health benefits of vitamin D supplementation in individuals who are already vitamin D sufficient is unproven.