Valproate (valproic acid, VPA, sodium valproate, and valproate semisodium forms) are medications primarily used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder and prevent migraine headaches. They are useful for the prevention of seizures in those with absence seizures, partial seizures, and generalized seizures. They can be given intravenously or by mouth, and the tablet forms exist in both long- and short-acting formulations.
Common side effects of valproate include nausea, vomiting, somnolence, and dry mouth. Serious side effects can include liver failure, and regular monitoring of liver function tests is therefore recommended. Other serious risks include pancreatitis and an increased suicide risk. Valproate is known to cause serious abnormalities or birth defects in the unborn child if taken during pregnancy, and is contra-indicated for women of childbearing age unless the drug is essential to their medical condition and the person is also prescribed a contraceptive. Reproductive warnings have also been issued for men using the drug. The United States Food and Drug Administration has indicated a black box warning given the frequency and severity of the side effects and teratogenicity. Additionally, there is also a black box warning due to risk of  hepatotoxicity and pancreatitis. As of 2022 the drug was still prescribed in the UK to potentially pregnant women, but use declined by 51% from 2018–19 to 2020–21. Vaproate has been in use in Japan for the prophylaxis of migraine since 2011. It is approved as an antimaniac and anti seizure in Japan as well. In UK, vaproate is approved for bipolar mania and epilepsy, and both valproate and divalproex are approved, although divalproex sodium is known as valproate semisodium.
Valproate's precise mechanism of action is unclear. Proposed mechanisms include affecting GABA levels, blocking voltage-gated sodium channels, inhibiting histone deacetylases, and increasing LEF1. Valproic acid is a branched short-chain fatty acid (SCFA), a derivative of valeric acid.
Valproate was originally synthesized in 1881 and came into medical use in 1962. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. In 2022, it was the 174th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 2 million prescriptions.